---
layout:article
title: Beginning, The
subtitle: What Happened?
author: Aaron Rice
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 12R1
pgg_date: 1997/01/31
article_date: 1997/01/31
alternative_title_1: Start, The
alternative_title_2: Time And Space, The Beginning Of
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1997-01-31 01:00
see_also: ["2U31"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>In the beginning there was a word, and the word was "Why?" Before that, there was a lot of messing around trying to survive, fighting off your nearest rival and trying to protect your cave from invasion by that angry bloke just over the next hill.</p>
<p>But how did it all start? This is an interesting question and nobody really knows the exact answer for sure. In fact, it is very unlikely that anyone will ever be able to know beyond all doubt, unless they are one day able to build a time machine, go back, and find out.</p>
<p>Religions state that everything was created by some form of divine being, or "God". Branches of philosophy would argue with this, questioning the existence of God in a non-existent nothing; who created God? Others, just to confuse the issue, would claim that God created man, but in turn, man created God (or the other way around). This is rather paradoxical, and therefore we will ignore it for now.</p>
<p>Scientific theories have been floating around for a long time, and most point to some form of "Big Bang" as the creator of the universe. But if there was such a thing, how did it happen? What was there before? And who's going to clean up the mess?</p>
<p>Like contemplating the infinity of space, trying to think about the infinity of time just gives most people a headache. If you think back far enough, something must have always happened before, and if you look far enough, something must always be beyond. If it said that if you contemplate this for too long, you will eventually go insane, though the only people who say this are those that have thought about it for too long, so their conclusion is not to be taken too seriously.</p>
<p>In the end, perhaps there really was no "beginning". Or at least no "beginning" like we understand beginnings. Whatever the answer, nobody is likely ever to know for certain, and the pursuit of an answer makes for a fantastically fruitful occupation, and a lifetime's commitment to speculation.</p>
</div>
