---
layout:article
title: Cheating At Darts
subtitle: Bending The Rules Of Another Pub Game
author: Tony Blews
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 13R1
pgg_date: 1997/09/18
article_date: 1997/09/18
alternative_title_1: Darts, Cheating At
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1997-09-18 00:00
see_also: ["9R14"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Darts, the great British pub game traditionally played by people who are wider than they are tall. The sort of game where body weight counts towards victory, or so it seems. In such a simple game of skill which basically involves throwing little arrows at a stationary target, one would think there were few opportunities to cheat. Not so. Here are some practical and theoretical methods of bending the rules.</p>
<h3>Causing A Distraction</h3>
<p>This can be as simple as sneezing as they throw their dart, through to spiking their beer with vodka and getting them drunk. In extreme cases, hitting your opponent in the ear lobe is acceptable.</p>
<h3>Manipulating The Scores</h3>
<p>If you are naturally bad at maths, then fixing the scores is the best option for you. Always make sure that your score is lower than theirs.</p>
<h3>Abusing Technology</h3>
<p>A dart is essentially a pointy bit of metal with plastic wings, therefore a collection of powerful electromagnets behind the board could be used to pull the dart into the desired score area. As yet, laser-targeted dart launchers are not available, neither are fly-by-wire dart missiles, so those options are out.</p>
<h3>The Ways Of The Force</h3>
<p>Black magic, if you can get it to work, is your friend. Cajoling spirits to guide the darts to their destination may give you an advantage, and if you're really good at it you might get away with trick shots.</p>
<p>So there you go. You might as well just chuck the darts and hope for the best.</p>
</div>
