---
layout:article
title: FTP, A Boring Article On How To Use
subtitle: File Transfer Process, TCP/IP (boring)
author: Alexander Lachlan McLintock
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 1R20
pgg_date: 1994/09/01
article_date: 1994/09/01
alternative_title_1: File Transfer Process
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1994-09-01 00:00
see_also: ["2R127"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Alex's Beginners guide to using FTP</p>
<p>Sometimes you want to make a copy of a file which is on a machine far away on the internet. It may be on another continent or across the room. The owner of that machine may be perfectly happy to let you have the copy but doesn't want to give just anybody access to his machine. The File Transfer Process lets system administrators devote a section of their hard disks for files which can be copied to other computers (it sometimes allows new files to be uploaded too). You don't get to fully use the machine as you would in a telnet session or rlogin. Instead you are limited to a set of commands with which you can copy files to your local machine but do no damage on the remote machine.</p>
<p>You must open a connection to the remote machine.</p>
<blockquote>ftp &lt;ip.address&gt;</blockquote>
<p>&lt;ip.address&gt; can be the numeric form eg 132.24.99.2 or a valid machine name such as vela.acs.oakland.edu</p>
<blockquote>ftp vela.acs.oakland.edu</blockquote>
<p>You will then be asked for your id and password. If the machine is private then you need to be told this by the system administrator. If the remote machine intends to let anyone use it then it will probably have a user id called "anonymous" (hence the phrase "Anonymous FTP"). In place of the password the remote machine will ask for your email address. It will record this and might complain if it is different from your local machine's name.</p>
<blockquote>anonymous<br>
<a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130206000028/mailto:me@mymachine.mysite.ac">me@mymachine.mysite.ac</a>.uk</blockquote>
<p>If this works then you will be presented with a welcome message telling you not to do anything naughty and you will be placed in an appropriate directory. This is usually /pub, meaning the directory containing the public files.</p>
<p>To list the files in that directory use</p>
<blockquote>ls</blockquote>
<p>(Directories usually have a line starting with a d)</p>
<p>To change directory you use cd.</p>
<blockquote>cd /pub<br>
cd galactic-guide<br>
cd theguide</blockquote>
<p>Now see if the file you want is there.</p>
<blockquote>ls</blockquote>
<p>You should see files including something like tg145.zip, or complete.zip.</p>
<p>Whenever I use ftp, I switch on hash marking with</p>
<blockquote>hash</blockquote>
<p>One more thing must be done. We have to say that this is a binary file and not an ascii text file. If you forget this then you may fetch a useless file!</p>
<blockquote>bin</blockquote>
<p>Now to actually get the file.</p>
<blockquote>get tg145.zip</blockquote>
<p>You need to wait a while (A few seconds for fast university connection, or a few minutes to hours for a slow modem connection). Then you will see a message saying how quickly it transfered the file. Then</p>
<blockquote>quit</blockquote>
<p>The file should be in your local directory that you started off in.</p>
</div>
