---
layout:article
title: New Orleans, Louisiana, USA, Earth
subtitle: Guide To New Orleans
author: Brian K. Dore'
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 1R4
pgg_date: 1992/01/17
article_date: 1992/01/17
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1992-01-17 01:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>If you follow the path of the mighty Mississippi River all the way from its source in the Northern United States, down its twisty and meandering bends through the heart of the country, to its forked mouth dumping millions of gallons of muddy water into the Gulf of Mexico, you would probably be quite disappointed. Except for a few dirty brown pelicans and the remains of a beautiful swamp cut into little bitty pieces by an overzealous petrochemical company, there isn't much to see. You would probably, without a second thought, backtrack your way up the river, round the final few bends, and find a place to have a drink in the city of New Orleans.</p>
<p>If you don't like to drink, dance, eat, or listen to music, you might continue on your way back up to the source of the river. In fact, if you don't like to drink, dance, eat, or listen to music it is doubtful that you will ever chance to venture out along the river in any case.</p>
<p>While there are many interesting sights throughout this old and historic city, there are plenty of tour and travel books available to show you around. For now we will just concentrate on the important part of the city: the places to go to have <em>fun</em>.</p>
<h3>Where to Stay:</h3>
<p>The absolute best place to sleep in New Orleans is in your van. Your old, scratched, well beat up, nicely inconspicuous van. This solves any problems you may have finding your way to a motel at 4 am. It is also quite a bit cheaper than any of the motels in New Orleans, even if you have to buy the van, and a new set of tires for it the next day. Some people with money stay in hotels within the city. This writer neither has money, or knows any of these people, so we will simply drop the idea all together. People with enough money to stay downtown can afford one of those slick travel books with a picture of something on the cover that you will probably never see in the city to which the book is said to relate to.</p>
<p>Somewhere between the airport and the French Quarter is a city called Metarie. The only redeeming quality of this city other than being close enough to New Orleans to make it the perfect place to pull over to get a quick bite, take a leak, or puke on the way home is the abundance of cheap motels. You will find, however, that after being in New Orleans, cheap is a relative term. My personal favorite is the Peacock Plaza Inn.</p>
<p>The Peacock Plaza Inn is noted as being a good compromise between price, cleanliness, and safety. It is also known for being across the street from a topless bar (The Downs) and free porno movies. Based on this author's experience, a six pack and free pornos is better than a trip to The Downs, but then some people like paying five bucks for a seven ounce beer and having ugly women beg them for money.</p>
<p>The Landmark is a bit nicer, a bit more expensive, but has a bar at the top overlooking the city which is kind of neat. Both of these places are quite visible from the interstate, and should be quite easy to find. Since finding things is part of the fun, no street addresses will be given. The fact that I have no idea what streets they are on has absolutely no influence over this decision.</p>
<h3>The French Quarter:</h3>
<p>Saying that there are no other interesting parts to such an old and historic city would quickly get you lynched by a mob of angry New Orleans Saints fans who are quite easily upset. The fact that these people return year after year to cheer for a team who has never won a playoff game in their 25 year history may give you some idea of what kind of sick individuals inhabit the city. Unless you happen to have to live there however, you probably shouldn't waste your time seeing the rest of the city.</p>
<p>When in the quarter you may be invited to bet money on various things. While an intelligent person will rarely lose more than three or four dollars on a visit to persistent persons, three or four dollars <em>will</em> buy you a good drink at Pat O'Briens.</p>
<p>Q: I'll bet you a dollar I can tell you where you got your shoes. A: (On your feet, on the street, in the City of New Orleans)</p>
<p>Don't bother with the shell game or picking the queen out of three cards. Give a buck or two to the scummy guy with the box guitar playing American Pie instead.</p>
<p>Decatur Street Brewpub. A great place to start, while you can still appreciate what a good beer tastes like, and a nice bar looks like. They serve four great homebrewed beers here. This is a block down, and across the street from the Hard Rock Cafe, which, as everybody already knows, is simply a franchised tourist trap. Decatur Street is also a great place to park your van. The lot across the street from the 'Bulls Corner Saloon' is quite nice. The Bulls Corner is about a block away from the Hard Rock, and a great place to relieve yourself once you arrive to park, when you return to the van to drop off anything you may have purchased, and when you get ready to pass out for the day.</p>
<p>Since this entry is already <em>way</em> too long, and telling you much more might spoil your trip, I end this entry with a few bits of advice.</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Pat O'Briens is not to be missed. Look stupid and ask should you not be able to locate it for some reason. By all means visit the Piano Bar, even if you have to stand in line. You may want to do this later rather than sooner for the simple reason is that you will probably not want to, or more probably not be able to, leave.</li>
<li value="2">Any place on Bourbon Street that offers sex, nudity, etc. on a sign over the entrance is not worth the trouble. Any place where you find an alleyway that is barely wide enough to squeeze into without signs probably is worth the trouble.</li>
<li value="3">If you wander around, you will inevitably find yourself smack in the middle of a place that things are obviously not all that they seem. Don't panic, don't stay any longer than possible, and don't answer "yes" to anyone or anything that asks something of you while there. Just trust me on this one.</li>
</ol>
<!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END-->
</div>

