---
layout:article
title: Exterminating Human-Kind
subtitle: A Beginner's Buide To Devastating An Ecosystem
author: Andrew Forrest
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 1S6
pgg_date: 1994/08/31
article_date: 1994/08/31
alternative_title_1: Capitalism
alternative_title_2: Conservation
alternative_title_3: Ecology
alternative_title_4: Extinction
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Wed, 1994-08-31 00:00
see_also: ["2S14"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>INTRODUCTION:</p>
<p>So you've got your eye on a nice little planet. It is covered in luscious, green plants, wide oceans and has a lovely atmosphere (78% Nitrogen, 21% Oxygen, 1% Argon). The only problem is how to get rid of the irritating ape-descendants with the digital-watch fixation.</p>
<p>This article tells you how to do it in no more than a couple of millennia. It <em>will</em> make a bit of a mess of the biosphere, but that should clear itself up in no more than a millennium or two.</p>
<p>You're hooked, right? "How do I start?" you ask yourself. Well, you've got an advantage in working with a primate species with a big enough brain to grasp abstract concepts, and much of its behaviour implemented in software -- we will be adapting the behaviour later on. The opposable thumb and tool-using ability will be useful later too.</p>
<p>This article will first discuss some of the potential obstacles in extinguishing an entire species and consider possible ways around these problems. (It is important to take into account the checks that prevent species of animals from habitually destroying themselves.) Next, we shall concentrate on providing the main groundwork for the project, setting up a global financial system -- a free economy -- and some of the effects which this will have. Finally we discuss how one should deliver the final, fatal blows to the human race.</p>
<p>CONSIDERATIONS:</p>
<p>The theory goes like this: no individual human or small group is able to destroy the whole race. And trying to have every small, tribal group <em>individually</em> precipitate its own demise (by destroying its habitat) is also doomed to failure since:</p>
<blockquote>1) To get any group of animals to destroy their own habitat is very difficult, since to <em>be</em> a natural habitat, the animal must be adapted to living there. To destroy one's environment is to be maladapted to that environment. This suggests we should move people around and put them in unfamiliar and alien surroundings.
<p>2) The groups which <em>do</em> destroy themselves leave any remaining, non-destructive groups, (however few) to prosper and multiply; we must get the entire race to <em>cooperate</em> in its downfall -- form one vast corporate juggernaut of destruction!</p>
<p>3) An individual or small group is most likely to notice the damage they are doing; it is only by effectively isolating cause and effect for long enough that the damage can become effective and permanent. The dog can keep on biting the hand that feeds it as long as it doesn't go hungry.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>METHOD:</p>
<p>The method we are going to use is to set up a Global economy. A system of monetary transfer which encompasses the planet, and which is rigorously enforced and promoted by every major group of humans.</p>
<p>Money abstracts wealth and provides a standard unit of currency which has no values attached to it (there is no such thing as `good' or `bad' money). Moreover, an economy engenders specialisation. The producers produce and the consumers consume. The consumers pay money to the producers, so the producers try to create as much of the product as possible as cheaply as possible; the consumers try to obtain as much money as possible and buy the cheapest goods possible. Goods -- food, clothes, housing, water, air -- all flow through the system to the merry jingle of profit.</p>
<p>With a class of specialist producers providing the bare necessities of life, the system can afford to keep specialists in other areas: teachers, makers of luxury goods, scientists, priests, prostitutes, soldiers; where there is money, there are professions. In a small tribe with no financial organisation, individuals spend their time hunting for and gathering food and tending their young; in an economy, by contrast, individuals spend half their time making money (by selling a product or service) and the other half expending it (buying and using other products and services).</p>
<p>The implications of this system really are enormous. We are starting to breach some of the problems outlined above:</p>
<p>2) The promise of commerce (and therefore, profit) tends to bring groups together. In addition, groups which can support professional armies tend to prevail over groups with no full-time warriors. As the lure of profit is strong, and military power persuasive, we begin to see large nation-states emerge, through conquests military and economic.</p>
<p>In time, the natural trade barriers between even these vast states begin to crumble.</p>
<p>1) As countries and economies get bigger, one can observe the enormous movement of people and goods within them. Cities, created for protection and commerce, introduce vast numbers of people to a lifestyle which is increasingly remote from the realities of the world -- from food production and water source; from the plants and animals which provide clothing; from the rocks and trees which are building materials.</p>
<p>Even `wild' areas and countryside become increasingly urbanised: roads are built for transporting goods and staging posts and roadside cafes grow up along the roads. To provide the essentials of life to citizens of our booming economy, specialists spring up to grow and harvest the raw materials, farming vast, treeless plains, planting foreign and maladapted plants, spreading toxins and defoliants, breeding other animals into perverse and unnatural shapes, quarrying enormous holes in the ground and uprooting, slashing and burning entire ecosystems.</p>
<p>If this sounds like a perverse and unlikely path for Mankind to take, remember that...</p>
<p>3) They won't feel the effects at once.</p>
<p>After all, the human population represents only a small proportion of life on the planet. There are plenty of natural resources and plenty of ways to exploit a particular resource (fertile ground, say) well past the stage at which it ceases to be naturally sustainable (by using fertilizers and weedkillers for example).</p>
<p>Fortunately, our encroaching civilisation has invested in scientists who have plenty of time to invent things like pesticides, and a medical profession which can devote its time to patching up the victims of wars and urban life and rediscover the benefits of a balanced diet. [`Civilised' diets are notoriously deficient in nutrition, since it is easier for farmers to concentrate on only a few different types of crops; fewer than the varieties in which primitive hunter-gatherers indulge.]</p>
<p>Technology becomes increasingly responsible for feeding, clothing, watering, housing and disposing the waste of the ballooning human population, effectively masking the fact that by this time it has become completely unsustainable, like Wile E. Coyote still running, unaware that he has run off the cliff and is about to plunge to the desert floor.</p>
<p>There may still be time for him to scramble back, so it probably better to drop a proverbial anvil on his head before he gets the chance...</p>
<p>PUTTING THE BOOT IN:</p>
<p>It may sound like we have a winning formula here, but there are a few things we have to do to push the species over the edge completely.</p>
<p>Representative democracy:</p>
<p>Ideally, our megasociety should have really bad leadership towards the end. For the final environmental apocalypse, world leaders must consistently ignore all the warning signs of impending doom and encourage the exploitation of their natural habitat to carry on apace. There is propaganda to be manipulated, industry to be encouraged, dissenters to be suppressed and a public to be kept contented and ill-informed.</p>
<p>What better way to achieve really bad leadership than to put a bunch of total incompetents in charge? And ideally, the population of this massive global economy should <em>want</em> to be governed by their leaders. This is actually possible! Organise a system by which the public think <em>they</em> are in charge. Specifically: restrict publication of information to those with enough money and have ruling officials <em>elected</em>.</p>
<p>Public elections are an excellent selection method for really bad leaders. Unless the public are well informed (which they cannot be with the press and media governed by market forces), only candidates who answer to certain criteria can achieve power:</p>
<blockquote>a) Since they depend upon public goodwill to be elected, they must relentlessly push populist and short-term policies, policies which ignore real issues and seek to reassure and comfort their voters. Similarly, our politicians can be relied upon to follow fashions and fads closely, changing their policies on the whim of the popular media.
<p>b) They must cultivate their own image and power over that of competitors, ruthlessly covering up scandal and stabbing colleagues in the back when necessary.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>By this method you can be sure that only the rich, power-hungry and ruthless become powerful leaders.</p>
<p>Fast science/technology:</p>
<p>Science, the systematic investigation of Nature, must speed up. Likewise, we should aim to shorten the time between a scientific discovery being made and this new discovery being put to use. The reason for this is that with technology becoming increasingly powerful, hastily implemented science has really great potential for causing massive damage.</p>
<p>Of course, only a pretty sick society would condone the marketing of immature and untested science (nuclear energy or genetic engineering, for example) before the risks are fully known. It goes almost without saying that if there is a financial imperative, in the money-driven society we are building here, such haste is difficult to prevent!</p>
<p>So instant technology is offered by the scientific establishment while development and research into new areas accelerates and engineers today are busy selling what was the cutting edge of research yesterday.</p>
<p>Of course, some of the problems which this science produces will be noticed, and when the pressure from an angry public becomes greater than the pressure of the corporations' backhanders, a government must do something. Thankfully the `solution' will usually be just more instant scientific panacea; new illnesses are treated with newer medicines and the science continues on apace.</p>
<p>You should keep an eye on the scientific community, however. This, by definition, contains too many free-thinking and open-minded individuals. You should therefore take pains to make sure that the media ignores the majority of warnings from scientists (1) -- it may help to do some planning on this one and to foster mistrust and fear of science at an early stage. Planting the seeds of fundamentalist religion may help too (any brand will do).</p>
<p>Make your opponents look silly:</p>
<p>Naturally, dire warnings of death and destruction should be avoided at all cost. Your society must not become aware of its destruction, because the nations you have been creating are so technologically sophisticated that they would be easily able to avoid this natural armageddon if sufficiently motivated.</p>
<p>Information has a way of making itself known, in time, so the best way to prevent civilisation from becoming aware of its plight is to make sure that it doesn't <em>want</em> to know. We are starting from a fortunate position in that humans evolved in small tribal groups and are emotionally unable to relate to the notion of global extinction. On top of this is the fact that the global economy has powerful interests involved in (over)exploiting natural resources. However you must cope with the fact that <em>some</em> people will become concerned about the plight of their species, especially since the evidence is there for all to see.</p>
<p>One of the best ways to make sure that impending doom is ignored is to ensure that its news is trivialised: you must avoid getting the vast populations worried at all costs. The fact that these populations are being kept well fed and watered by the system obviously helps.</p>
<p>Rapid population growth:</p>
<p>One of the best ways to destroy a population's ecosystem is to vastly increase that population. Fortunately, population growth is practically guaranteed by wealth, something which our society is not be lacking. Wealth can afford doctors to prolong life and give babies to infertile parents. And these new nations with vast farming concerns are more than able to keep up with demand for food. The huge increases in human numbers and the (farm)land required to keep them alive can be easily accommodated by amputating more natural land. (You should make sure, meanwhile, that the population is blind to the dangers of felling vast areas of woodland, draining marshes and damming rivers; and deaf to the warnings -- see above.)</p>
<p>Consumer capitalism:</p>
<p>Well, you should have already managed to arrange a system of consumer capitalism. But ideally we would like to accelerate its effects; to persuade more people to consume more product, prompting more production, and hence more ecological devastation.</p>
<p>Are you beset by problems in your scheme to run down the human race? Not enough consumers buying useless and environmentally-damaging goods? You need ADVERTISING! Yes! Just implant the seeds of product-promotion in any sentient population and see the consumption take off! Now there's <em>new improved</em> Advertising, with Television! Guaranteed to have grasping, materialistic populations running for extinction before you can say "thirty second product slot". Try some today!</p>
<p>SUMMARY:</p>
<p>Most of this project is just a matter of prompting the societies along occasionally -- there's a bit of work to be done to start it all off -- but mostly the species you're trying to kill will do your job for you. To recap: you first prompt the indigenous humans to adopt a monetary system, then later push for embellishments like `representative democracy' and a consumer culture.</p>
<p>After a few thousand years of hard work, you should be able to sit back and watch as the human population approaches doomsday numbers (about x billion) and natural disasters, especially famines, droughts and epidemic diseases start to decimate the population. Civil wars, tribal and religious violence, riots, bloody revolutions (and so on) become more common. Eventually the backbone of civilisation breaks and billions die in the resulting anarchy. Without the Economy to support them, most starve, unable to eke out a living on infertile land. Softened by a safe life with excellent medical care, the inhospitable wilderness and epidemic diseases take their toll on the ex-civilians of our global economy.</p>
<p>At this point there are still hundreds of millions of surviving humans, but faced with only limited food and land resources, we can expect most to quickly dwindle to extinction. Many others, will take the quick way out; tin-pot dictatorships unleash chemical, biological and nuclear death on other nations in competing for tiny and shrinking resources. This should quickly wipe out the rest of the survivors.</p>
<p>There will soon be no sign of Homo Sapiens.</p>
<p>AUTHOR'S NOTE:</p>
<p>Go figure.</p>
<p>(1) While writing this article I learned that 16000 scientists, a couple of them Nobel winners, recently submitted an open letter to the governments of the world, warning of the dangers of the current exploding population. Nobody seemed to notice. See `Author's note'.</p>
</div>
