---
layout:article
title: Origins Of The Guide
subtitle: The Plithkud People Of Albidris IV Claim Credit
author: Mark Anthony Young
factuality: UnReal
pgg_id: 1U1
pgg_date: 1992/01/24
article_date: 1992/01/24
alternative_title_1: Guide Origins
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1992-01-24 01:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>The idea of collecting Guide entries is not as funny as many modern people believe. The idea is clearly very old. Some people say that the origin of the idea is lost in the mists of time, but the Plithkud people of Albidris IV claim credit for it in the name of their founding father of philosophy, Sendri Cholkuth Bork Bork Bork (name shortened for presentational purposes).</p>
<p>The Shimil people of Albidris IV are not surprised at this claim, but they do not credit it. "Those Plithkuds are a bunch of idea-thieving, good for nothing morons. They haven't had an original thought in eons, and that old charlatan blowhard piece of dried-up turd was the worst of the lot. He's an embarrassment to the whole planet, not to mention the Plithkuds, which we hardly ever do."</p>
<p>Still, perseverance in the face of criticism is a Plithkud ideal ("They need it," say the Shimils). Researchers from the Imperial University at Gondanala say that the Plithkuds are the second most perseverant people in the galaxy (they talk like that -- they're academics). The most perseverant, they go on to say (as we know they would -- academics love to talk), are the Jogoth people of Aniander III. The Jogoths have the most highly advanced bureaucracy ever devised by any sentient species. In order to eat breakfast the normal Jogoth has to fill out seventeen forms in triplicate, indicating what they intend to eat, how they intend to prepare it, who will be eating with them (the other people also have to fill out seventeen forms, and the bureaucrats will not stint in their efforts to check the forms against each other), what the seating arrangement will be at the table (an extra form required if the meal is to be served at the counter, and another if it is to be eaten standing up), what steps have been taken to ensure that no one present has had this same dish for breakfast in the past ten days, and a dozen other forms besides. Rather than being daunted for this, the average Jogoth affirms that "it's nice to have some light paperwork to get you started in the morning."</p>
<p>The Plithkuds are not bothered by the accusations of their neighbors. "Those Shimils are just a bunch of liars," they say. "And jealous, too," they add, "because <em>their</em> philosophers didn't think up as many things as <em>our</em> philosophers." "Get real," say the Shamils. "Thhhhphphpht," say the Plithkuds. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

