---
layout:article
title: Westerbork Array, Westerbork, Drenthe, Netherlands, Earth
subtitle: The Westerbork Synthesis Radio Telescope (WSRT)
author: Roel van der Meulen
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R102
pgg_date: 1994/06/271999/03/13
article_date: 1994/06/27, 1999/03/13
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: WSRT
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 2010-10-21 15:59
see_also: ["1R1", "2R103", "12S1", "2S48", "2S19", "2S20"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"http://www.nfra.nl/wsrt/index.htm"}
---
<div>
<p>The Westerbork Array is an array of 14 radio telescopes with diameters of 25 metres each. The array is straight east-west with telescope zero (in the west) through nine fixed, and telescopes A, B, C, and D moveable on a railway track:</p>
<pre>
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 A B                       C D
                   ============              =====
</pre>
<p>("=" is the railway). The fixed telescopes are 144 metres apart and the maximum baseline length is 2.8km. Shadowing, which happens when one telescope is in view of the next, occurs for sources near the celestial equator, particularly for the shortest baseline (9A). The computer limits elevations to above 5 degrees - below that you are probably observing the trees anyway.</p>
<p>I think that's about enough technical stuff for now, except for this: Around radio telescopes it is necessary to have disturbance-free zones. The extremely weak radio signals are very vulnerable, so special care is taken to remove all disturbances from the signal. A lot of disturbances are prevented by not allowing any motorized vehicles near the telescopes. I have seen numerous dick-heads who have, regardless of the warnings, driven their cars into the area to have a <em>short</em> stroll through the neighbouring park. This makes it necessary to throw away a lot of signal, screwing up parts of someone's research and ruining many man-hours of work. How I hate stupid people!</p>
<p>As it is forbidden for cars to enter the disturbance-free zone of Westerbork, you have to park your car and then walk to the telescopes. The state forest department has set out a special hiking trail from the Hooghalen car park to the telescopes. Along the way there are educational show-cases that tell a lot about a diversity of astronomical subjects. Additionally, a scaled solar system can be observed along the same track. This mainly tries to give you an idea of the relative sizes of the planets and of the distances between them. Every step you take is 2.5 million kilometres in reality. The sun is as large as a football and the planets have sizes ranging from centimetres to even millimetres. The whole track is 4 kilometres long. Halfway there are also two parabolic reflectors, which illustrate how radio astronomy uses dishes to collect signals from far away. They are reasonably far apart, but when you whisper at one end you can still be heard at the other. Finally at the end of the path you reach the telescopes. There you will also find four show-cases, giving some facts about about radio astronomy.</p>
<p>If you find yourself inside the Westerbork Observatory <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>, one of the most exciting things that can happen is the starting of an observation period. The main thing that you can see happening is this: All 14 telescopes change direction simultaneously. A majestic sight! After that the recording tapes are changed and... you wait. And wait. (This is probably not one of the best moments to try to explain the joys of being a radio astronomer.) What I like about the institute is the small extension of the building which, when standing inside, has the feel of an airport control tower. You feel you control every movement of all the huge dishes. (I mean huge with comparison to your average cereal plate.)</p>
<p>For most people in the Netherlands the name Westerbork rings quite a different bell than it does for astronomers. During the second world war there was a concentration camp at this same spot, where people had to wait before being transported to the destruction camps in Germany. There is a war memorial near the telescopes. An insane person once wanted to damage the memorial, but because the people who take care of it are aware that neo-nazis sometimes try to vandalize these kind of things, the memorial was well protected. Frustrated, the man went to the Westerbork Array control centre, which wasn't, and wrecked a lot of the computers. Everything is OK again now, but alertness is now higher than it used to be.</p>
<p>How to get there: In Assen choose the road to Hooghalen, there turn right across the railway tracks and then take the first road to the right. You can also take the Hoogeveen-Assen train and depart at Beilen, take the road to Hooghalen, there turn left across the railway tracks, etc.</p>
<p>It may be amusing to know the name of a small village nearby: Amen.</p>
</div>
