---
layout:article
title: Art Of Being, The
subtitle: One Of The More Confusing Arts
author: Dave Shockey Jr.
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R114
pgg_date: 1994/07/15
article_date: 1994/07/15
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1994-07-15 00:00
see_also: ["1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>There main key isn't the actual Art of Being. It is the keen perception of realizing that you be. Not everyone can fathom that they actually exist. Some refuse to even acknowledge that anyone or anything exist, and will talk to you about the subject at great length. Of course this is a very abstract thought. The counter-argument to abstract thought is that if you are doing abstract thought, then you must at least exist a little. The counter-argument to the counter-argument is a reference to almost any modern free-form poet. No one is willing to put forth a counter-argument to the counter-argument to the counter-argument.</p>
<p>This leads to even a greater argument for non-existence. Of course it's all complete rubbish and anyone with the time for the whole mess is not someone who deserves to exist at all. (No reference to the before mentioned argument.) Any stupid bird that flies into a mirror can tell you that it exists along with the other on-coming bird that darted out of the way, the exact way it decided was the best way to avoid a collision. It's no real matter that the moronic bird is wrong about what it conceives to be another bird, but which is really an idiotic reflection of itself in the mirror. (The counter-counter argument lobe in my brain has sacked the counter-argument lobe of my brain to keep any callous, intrepid ideas from escaping any more in this article.)</p>
<p>(Disclaimer- My subconscious mind and my conscious mind don't often get along because the twit conscious mind is often screwing up what the brilliant subcon...all right stop that, your not even supposed to be able to do that so up front. You are supposed to influence me with some mental innuendo. So go back and create some more insecure personal feelings that I can muddle with later.)</p>
<p>Anyways, all of that should further my point. I've forgotten what it was so if you're confused also, go back to the bird analogy and it most likely will clear things up. If it doesn't, then why don't you just go off and shave a lemur.</p>
<p>I moving on.</p>
<p>So, back to the art of being. Being is one of the simplest things you'll ever do in life. Once you get going, there's not really much more to it. It's kind of like riding a bike. Once you can do it, you never forget how to do it, taking for granted you're not riding your bike into the front of a speeding bus. You pretty much lose the talent for riding a bike at this point. Along with being, at least physically being.</p>
<p>This brings up the interesting difference between physically being and spiritually being. You can tell 99.9 percent of the time whether someone is physically being. No one has conclusively proven anyone does or does not spiritually exist. Spiritual existence is a truly confusing matter to get involved in and I'm often easily confused, so I'll leave that topic to some other hitchhiker. (Taking for granted someone actually reads this article.)</p>
<p>Being is an art that doesn't take that much talent. It most likely is the easiest art you'll ever do. Although, it does make about as much sense as most art. So even though the question, "why are we being?," is an extremely complicated question. The actual art of being is an extremely easy thing to do. You ought to try it sometime.</p>
</div>
