---
layout:article
title: Poutine
subtitle: A Strange Way To Eat French Fries And Cheese
author: Daniel Robitaille
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R119
pgg_date: 1994/07/17
article_date: 1994/07/17
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Sun, 1994-07-17 00:00
see_also: ["2U19", "2S34", "2R59", "2R39", "2R22"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>A Poutine is something that you can eat. You can't do anything else with a poutine, and so a poutine is very different from an object like a towel with which you can do a lot of different and useful things.</p>
<h3>Where can someone find a poutine?</h3>
<p>Unless you find yourself in Quebec (a small part of a country on Earth named Canada) you can't. But don't despair, this article will give you the recipe of this wonderful food.</p>
<p>If you are lucky enough to have both feet in Quebec, you can find poutine at almost every places where food can be obtained. And that includes the major Fast Food companies, more used to serving burgers than this divine meal. Why do these big Fast Food chains only serve poutine in Quebec and nowhere else? No one is really sure but sometimes we must stop asking difficult questions to reality, and so we will consider that fact as unquestionable.</p>
<h3>How to cook your own poutine?</h3>
<p>First you need a receptacle to put your poutine in. This can be anything: A plate, a soup bowl, your hands (if you don't mind holding warm things), or, as they usually use in some restaurants, a nice white styrofoam bowl.</p>
<p>In that receptacle, you need to put some warm french fries. If you don't know what french fries are, call a restaurant doing home deliveries and ask for some.</p>
<p>On these french fries you had some cheese cut in small pieces. You can use any kind of cheese. But please try to use cheese which is still fresh. Cheese with green patches is not usually considered fresh. But if you are going to eat your poutine alone, you are free to use whatever cheese you want to.</p>
<p>You mix the french fries and the cheese together. And since the french fries are warm, the cheese should start to melt right away.</p>
<p>Now you need to put some sauce on top of this mix. In grocery stores in Quebec you can usually find sauce specifically created to be used with poutine. But you can use any sauce you want to, but don't forget that an official poutine sauce is brown. Hot Chicken sauce is usually considered a valid substitute. (If you don't know what a Hot Chicken is... don't ask! I'm not going to describe that here.)</p>
<p>Your poutine is ready to eat. Enjoy your meal.</p>
</div>
