---
layout:article
title: Calvin And Hobbes
subtitle: A Comic Which Brings Back Childhood Memories
author: Ryan Tucker
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R118
pgg_date: 1994/07/17
article_date: 1994/07/17
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Sun, 1994-07-17 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Calvin and Hobbes, by Bill Watterson, is one of the most-read comic strips in the world. It is published daily, in grayscale, as well as on Sundays, in four-color dither. As with any good comic strip, some collections have been released. The ones that I know about and/or own are:</p>
<h3>Books</h3>
<p>Calvin and Hobbes<br>
Something Under The Bed Is Drooling<br>
Yukon Ho!<br>
Weirdos From Another Planet!<br>
The Revenge of the Baby-Sat (owned)<br>
Scientific Progress Goes "Boink" (owned)<br>
Attack of the Deranged Mutant Killer Monster Snow Goons (owned)</p>
<h3>Treasuries</h3>
<p>The Essential Calvin and Hobbes<br>
The Calvin and Hobbes Lazy Sunday Book<br>
The Authoritative Calvin and Hobbes<br>
The Indispensable Calvin and Hobbes (owned)</p>
<p>Calvin, a "typical" (as typical as the 2.4129337 kids in the average American family) 7-year-old American child, has a stuffed tiger, Hobbes. Calvin believes that Hobbes is a real tiger, and engages in some mischievous endeavors...</p>
<p>For example, his house is broken into and his TV is stolen. So, he decides to start a secret club. They name it G.R.O.S.S. - Get Rid Of Slimy girlS. [Note: Apologies to all slimy girls out there... I'm just reporting!]</p>
<p>They need a meeting place, so they choose the garage. But the car is in the way! So, they put it in neutral and start pushing. As luck would have it, the driveway slopes downhill into the street, with a ravine on the other side.</p>
<p>So, the car goes in the ravine.</p>
<p>Then, he returns home to his unsuspecting mother, packs clothes, makes a few dozen sandwiches, and prepares to leave, while Hobbes decides between bringing a yo-yo or bubbles.</p>
<p>Well, enough said. The only way you can find the rest out is by getting the book! (Page 78, <em>The Indispensable Calvin and Hobbes</em>, ISBN 0-8362-1898-1.)</p>
<p>If you want to "Try Before You Buy," Calvin and Hobbes is distributed internationally by Universal Press Syndicate.</p>
<p>A Hoopy CalvinBall To You! <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

