---
layout:article
title: Stairs, Travelling
subtitle: Up And Down Stairs
author: Rudy Wijnands
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R117
pgg_date: 1994/07/17
article_date: 1994/07/17
alternative_title_1: Travelling Stairs
alternative_title_2: Winchester Mystery House In San Jose, California, Stairs Of
alternative_title_3: Human Staircase Behaviour, Mr. Bean
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Sun, 1994-07-17 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Travelling, as we often do, brings you in lots of places. Often you enter buildings like houses, restaurants, or when you are a tourist castles. The next time you enter a building you must look for the stairs. They have quite a history. Stairs go way back and they way they build stairs a thousand years ago effect they way we build them nowadays.</p>
<h3>Comparing Stairs in Time</h3>
<p>The first thing you notice when you pay attention to stairs is the fact that they are all built counter-clockwise if you are climbing the stairs. If you go down the stairs, they are of course built clockwise. The way the stairs are built is a remainder of old ancient days. In the Middle Ages there were lots of castles and other high buildings. It was also a very dangerous time to live in. Everyone fought with everyone. To defend their private properties against intruders they built their stairs counter- clockwise. This was their advantage. Because most people (about 90 percent) were right-handed in those days, the way the stairs were built was to their advantage. In those days they fought with swords and when a intruder was climbing the stairs he would constantly hit the wall instead of the person he was fighting with. The defender didn't have this disadvantage so the way the stairs were built made it extremely difficult to conquer the building.</p>
<p>Nowadays we don't fight with swords any more. We use guns and other weapons. It doesn't really matter how the stairs are built. But because we've build them counter-clockwise for so many centuries we're stuck in the habit. If would be a nice change to climb a staircase which is built clockwise. It would be a strange experience indeed.</p>
<p>Because those time were so dangerous they've put another security measure in the stairs: trick or uneven steps. Uneven steps were primitive burglar alarms. The family of houses with uneven step quickly gets used to the shorter/higher step and compensates naturally. An intruder doesn't have the same luxury. If a burglar sneaks in such house it will go like this: (With thanks to Malinda for the story)</p>
<dl compact>
<dt>Burglar, sneaking up stairs</dt>
<dd>
<strong>sneak</strong> <strong>sneak</strong> <strong>sneak</strong> <strong>hits odd step</strong>
</dd>
<dt>Burglar</dt>
<dd>Zounds! OW! Blessed wounds of Christ! May thy dog give thee fleas!</dd>
<dt>Abigail</dt>
<dd>What was that?</dd>
<dt>Josiah</dt>
<dd>Hark, stranger! Or I shall pierce thee with yon pitchfork!</dd>
<dt>Burglar</dt>
<dd><strong>flees</strong></dd>
</dl>
<p>Nowadays we don't have uneven steps any more (only maybe if you have built the stairs yourself and you are not a good stairbuilder). We have other security devices so it would awkward to walk on uneven steps because it is unnecessary.</p>
<h3>The Winchester Mystery House in San Jose, California</h3>
<p>The Winchester Mystery House in San Jose, California has many stairways but many of them end in blank walls or with doors that open into space. Their are a lot of stories going around why the stairways are build in this way. One of them goes: The Old Lady Winchester was told that, as long as she was still building the place, she would never die. She also believed the house was inhabited by the spirits of people killed by Winchester weapons.</p>
<h3>Human Behaviour on Stairs</h3>
<p>When you walk the stairs you often do not meet a lot of people, especially when an elevator is available. Most people are too lazy to climb the stairs. But when you do meet people you get fascinated by their behaviour. Because the stairways are often very small you can not act like if you didn't see the person on the stairs. The consequence is that usually the persons will greet each other (not however if they are enemies). They also hold the door when they enter the stairway and you want to leave.</p>
<h3>Mr. Bean</h3>
<p>Their are two kinds of people on the stairs. You've got fast people and you've got slow people. Usually that is no big problem except when those two kinds of people have an encounter. If the stairway is big enough the fast people can pass the slow people without any difficulties, but the problems begin when the stairway is to small to pass each other. The fast people must walk behind the slow people and wait till they are down or up. If you are a fast person Mr. Bean has some clues how to pass slow people. If your building has two stairways run very fast to the next stairway, climbing the stairs for a few floors, run back to the first stairway, and hope you arrive before the slow people so you can laugh at them.</p>
<p>If however you are too slow with all this they will laugh at you. It also can happen that your building has only one stairway so you can not run to the other. But again Mr. Bean has the solution. Climb over the banisters (don't let yourself drop). Hang on it. Hand by hand you can pass slow people. If you have passed the slow person you climb over the banisters again and walk fast down the stairs. If you have bad luck (like Mr. Bean) another slow person will be waiting for you.</p>
<h3>Dates</h3>
<p>The final point I will mention about human behaviour is the following. When two people who know each other are walking the stairs they usually talk a bit. Problems occur when one of them is on his floor but the other not yet. But if they are in a nice conversation they will not stop talking. They will hold at this point and talk on. Usually they stand in the way so they have to end the conversation. But always in this final moment of the conversation important things have to be discussed. How to solve this problem? With dates, appointments, and engagements. Then they can talk more. So if you are lonely or have nothing to do for the evening, you might walk up and down the stairs all the time. Talk to a lot of people there and hope you will get a date for the evening. I wish you all the luck of the world. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

