---
layout:article
title: Flying
subtitle: The Concept Of Staying Aloft
author: Paul Jason Clegg
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R11
pgg_date: 1992/09/04
article_date: 1992/09/04
alternative_title_1: Flight
alternative_title_2: Hover
alternative_title_3: Hovering
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1992-09-04 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>"Flying" is the term given to any object that just happens to be changing it coordinate location without treading on a solid surface, or liquid medium, but most definitely within the boundaries of an atmosphere. Some may also say that extra-atmospheric travel is also a form of flight, which it is, but most don't call it such, partially because the physical principles are usually different, but mostly because they don't do it often enough to warrant much discussion on the topic.</p>
<p>An object that is moving very, very fast, no matter what the medium of travel is, is often considered "flying," though this is only a slang implementation of the terminology.</p>
<p>Usually flight is achieved through one of two ways. The first is that a fixed wing design is implemented, such that great horizontal thrust applied to the object creates what is known as "lift," and (usually) maintains the vehicle's altitude. The second is similar, except that instead of the wing design remaining fixed, the wings actually rotate themselves, creating a purely vertical lift. Vehicles of the latter type are usually called "helicopters," and the former, "airplanes."</p>
<p>Conceptually, it has been thought that flight may be achieved by falling, and missing the ground. The chance, however, of falling down and missing the solid surface below you, is so nil as to make no odds, and this idea has never been proven to any degree to even be believable. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

