---
layout:article
title: Press Cards, Project Galactic Guide
subtitle: How To Get The Most Use Out Of Your PRESS CARD!
author: Jason S. Kohles
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R123
pgg_date: 1994/07/19
article_date: 1994/07/19
alternative_title_1: Passes, Press
alternative_title_2: Tips For Article Research
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Tue, 1994-07-19 00:00
see_also: ["2R83", "2S43"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Have you ever wondered how to get into those press only areas, how to identify a Field Researcher, or how to impress members of the opposite sex on fifty-seven different planets?</p>
<p>Well, wonder no more, because here it is. Your official Project Galactic Guide Press Card. (What? You say, you don't have one? Well, read the usenet newsgroup alt.galactic-guide quickly to find out where to get yours, then come back to this.)</p>
<p>Your Project Galactic-Guide Press Card, like all other press cards, is what is called a courtesy card, you are requesting the courtesy of police officers and other officials to "let you through their lines" into "press- only" areas. The only truly official press passes are those that are authorized by the local police. Properly used, this card will bring you courtesy more often than you might want.</p>
<p>To get the most use out of your card, pay attention to four factors:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">The appearance of your card. It should look professional. Fill in the blanks neatly and paste a nice picture in the appropriate spot. The picture should be a head-on, serious "mug-shot," not a glamorous portrait. Black and white or color is not important, but it should look more like an ID photo than a christmas card.</li>
<li value="2">Your professional behavior: be serious; be courteous to police officers or other officials, and they are more likely to be courteous to you. You may have to act charming and offer to help, or in some other way ingratiate yourself to them, but it will be worth it in the long run. Also, concerning professional behavior, it helps to carry a notebook, or a small tape recorder, into which you constantly put notes to give yourself a professional air. If you have a camera, take it along, it couldn't hurt.</li>
<li value="3">The type of event: don't expect to get into a Madonna concert or the Super Bowl. Press access is very strictly controlled for large events. This card may however, get you into the playing field of high school or college games, through police lines at a fire, and into press conferences.</li>
<li value="4">Planning. For fast breaking occurrences, such as fires, it is obviously impossible to get prior permission; simply show up with your press pass and hope for the best. For planned events, however, such as games and press conferences, call in advance. Call the sponsoring organization as early as possible and ask for the Public Relations Director that is handling the event you wish to enter. Tell them that you have been assigned by Project Galactic Guide to cover the event and ask to be placed on the Press List (a list of people who have authorized access to the event). If you are told there will be no Press List, ask what credentials you need beyond your press card. (Usually, no more credentials than that will be needed, however, if you need a letter from the press Editor, E-Mail the Press Editor for Project Galactic Guide early enough to have a letter faxed or mailed to you.)</li>
</ol>
<p>Lastly, if you are asked about Project Galactic Guide, be honest. Explain that it is an international organization of reporters and field researchers posting articles to the worldwide Internet network. (Or something to that effect.)</p>
<p>Remember:</p>
<blockquote>Be courteous.<br>
Be professional.<br>
Don't panic.</blockquote>
</div>
