---
layout:article
title: Bad Taste
subtitle: High Culture From New Zealand
author: Mark Grant
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R133
pgg_date: 1994/07/20
article_date: 1994/07/20
alternative_title_1: Cinema Review: Bad Taste
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Wed, 1994-07-20 00:00
see_also: ["2S14", "2S13", "2R134"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<h3>Released</h3>
<p>Wingnut Films, 1987</p>
<h3>Credits</h3>
<pre>
     Barry        - Pete O'Herne
     Derek/Robert - Peter Jackson
     Frank        - Mike Minett
     Ozzie        - Terry Potter
</pre>
<pre>
     Producer     - Peter Jackson
     Director     - Peter Jackson
     Writer       - Peter Jackson
     Editor       - Peter Jackson
     Effects      - Peter Jackson
     Makeup       - Peter Jackson
</pre>
<h3>Overview (possible spoiler warning)</h3>
<p>The inhabitants of the small New Zealand village of Kalhoi have vanished, replaced by a bunch of mindless, shambling freaks. Has the Earth been invaded by alien psychopaths, or is it just the Ministry of Works?</p>
<p>Fortunately, "The Boys" from AIDS (Astro Investigation and Defence Service) are here to find out, and on overtime rates, too.... Alien Invaders don't stand a chance against Barry, Derek the chainsaw-wielding ornithologist, Oz the avid Soldier of Fortune reader, and Frank, the cigar-chewing Capri Driver.</p>
<p><em>Bad Taste</em> is a humorous SF film from New Zealand, Earth, with a budget so low that, as you can see from the abbreviated credits above, the director also has to play two of the main characters and assist with practically everything else. It was Peter Jackson's first movie, and he has since gone on to produce several more, including <em>Meet The Feebles</em> (which I felt was nowhere near as good as <em>Bad Taste</em>), and <em>Brain Dead</em>.</p>
<p>This movie is the story of an alien fast-food company who come to Earth in search of something new to put on the menu, and the title refers both to this element of the storyline and to the film as a whole, which contains something to offend practically everyone. If you can't deal with cannibalism, sheep being blown up with rocket-propelled grenades, vomit- eating, and worse, you probably ought to leave well alone - on the other hand if that sounds like your idea of a good time, rent it immediately!</p>
<h3>Memorable Lines</h3>
<pre>
     "Stick all the bits of brain in a plastic bag, Barry"
</pre>
<pre>
     "Well, this has buggered your plans for conquering the universe,
      eh?"
</pre>
<pre>
     "I'll 'ave the 'ead, Reg - I want to suck 'is brains out"
</pre>
<pre>
     "You know the rules, when we work undercover we have to remain
      faceless"
     "I get it! Just in case we shoot lots of innocent people!"
</pre>
<pre>
     "My turn for the Magnum!"
</pre>
<p>And too many more to mention...</p>
<h3>Points of Note</h3>
<p>This is possibly the only movie where a Ford Capri gets blown up with a rocket launcher... worth watching just for that! 8-)</p>
</div>
