---
layout:article
title: Metric System
subtitle: A Brief Guide To The Metric System
author: Robert Kopp III
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R135
pgg_date: 1994/07/21
article_date: 1994/07/21
alternative_title_1: Measurement, Metric System
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1994-07-21 00:00
see_also: ["2U50", "2U5", "2R137", "2R143"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>The metric system is an easy to use system of measurements used in almost every country on Earth. It is based on three measurements, from which all of the other measurements derived. These measurements are: the meter, the gram, and the degree Celsius.</p>
<p>Metric measurements frequently have prefixes. These multiply the base unit by a certain amount. The more common prefixes are: kilo-, which makes the unit 1,000 times larger; centi-, which makes it one-hundredth of its size; and milli-, which makes it one-thousandth of its size. For example, a kilogram is 1,000 grams.</p>
<p>A meter is the metric unit of length. It is approximately equal to one ten-millionth of the distance from the Equator to the North Pole. It is also approximately equal to one three-hundred-millionth of a light second. A meter is equal to 3.3 feet, or 1.1 yards. A centimeter is equal to 0.4 inches. A kilometer is equal to 0.6 miles.</p>
<p>Metric area and volume is also based on the meter. A square meter is the basic unit of area, and a cubic meter is the basic measure of volume. The liter is a commonly used measure of volume, also. A square meter is equal to 11 square feet, and a cubic meter is equal to 35 cubic feet. A liter is equal to about 1 quart. It is also equal to the volume of the soda in a 1-liter soda bottle.</p>
<p>The gram is the measure of mass in the metric system, although the kilogram is more commonly used. The gram, unlike the pound, is a measure of mass, not of weight. Weight will vary depending on the strength of gravity; mass will not. On Earth, a kilogram equals 2.2 pounds.</p>
<p>The Celsius scale is the metric measure of temperature. 0 degrees Celsius is the freezing point of water, and 100 degrees is water's boiling point. -273 degrees Celsius is 0 degrees Kelvin, or absolute zero. The size of the degrees on the Kelvin scale is the same as the size of the degrees on the Celsius scale, although the starting points differ. To convert Celsius to Kelvin, subtract 273 degrees. To convert Celsius to Fahrenheit, multiply the Celsius measurement by 2.2 and subtract 32 degrees.</p>
<p>That's all there is to know about the metric system. As you can see, it's a much easier system than the customary system.</p>
</div>
