---
layout:article
title: Judaism
subtitle: One Of Earth's Oldest Religions
author: Robert Kopp III
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R131
pgg_date: 1994/07/22
article_date: 1994/07/22
alternative_title_1: Religions, Judaism
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1994-07-22 00:00
see_also: ["2R10"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Judaism is one of the world's oldest religions. It is the ancestor of both Christianity and Islam. The first written evidence of Judaism is the Book of J. It was written around 1000 BCE, and is one of the books the later evolved into the Torah. The Torah is the most important Jewish holy book. Much of it is the Christian Old Testament.</p>
<p>Judaism believes in one omnipotent, omniscient G-d. This is written in the most important prayer in Judaism, the Sh'ma. Translated from the Hebrew, it says, "Hear, O Israel: The Eternal is your G-d, the Eternal is One."</p>
<p>Hebrew is the language of most Jewish prayers and the historical language of the Jews. Yiddish and Ladino are languages that Jews used for much of this millennium. They are derived in part from Hebrew. They are also derived from the language of the areas where the Jews were living. Yiddish is mostly derived from German. Ladino is mostly derived from Spanish.</p>
<p>Jews have no tradition of an afterlife. Although for a period of time, Jews believed in the existence of a Heaven and a Hell, almost all modern Jews do not.</p>
<p>There are many different groups of Judaism with different strength of beliefs. These range from the extreme Orthodox to the non-religious. The organization of these groups differ considerably. In Judaism, there is no one policy. There are an almost unlimited variety of groups, including Reconstructionist Jews, Jewish Buddhists, Jews for Jesus, and Chasidic Jews.</p>
<p>Jews hold services in a synagogue. While most of the building can be, and frequently is, used for other purposes, the room where the service is held is not. This room houses the ark, which is where the Torah scrolls are kept.</p>
<p>Among the most important holidays are Rosh Hashanah, Yom Kippur, and Pesach. Although Channukah is the most commercialized, it is actually a minor holiday.</p>
<p>Judaism is classified as: 1A4M-01B.</p>
</div>
