---
layout:article
title: Kramer, Jeff
subtitle: Do Not Read This Summary Again
author: Jeff Kramer
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R152
pgg_date: 1994/08/24
article_date: 1994/08/24
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Wed, 1994-08-24 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>I was born on September 16, 1977 in the military hospital in Leavenworth, Kansas, USA, Earth. (Dang those plural zones!) I've lived in Korea, Japan, Spain, and of course the US. I've been on four of the seven continents, and loved every minute of it. (Except maybe the car sickness.) I got my first computer at the age of 12, a IBM XT. I have had several computers since, and finaly ended up with a Macintosh PowerBook 100. My pride and joy. (Even in the face of bitter DOS biggots!)</p>
<p>I like computers, fixing them, breaking them, and anything in between. I have a passion for video and Silicon Graphics workstations. I am currently enrolled (encarsarated?) in Hays High School, where I plow through 3 college classes, and ridicule the faculty for being so closed minded. I maintain a megar, but growing W^3 (World Wide Web) site.</p>
<p>I get Internet access through Real/Time Communications, a hoopy commercial Internet access provider, and my trusty USR Sportster 14.4. I'm also writing commercial web pages. (For what I call an income, hopefully.)</p>
<p>I'm a programmer on the GhostMOO, where I lay virtual bricks in my spare time. I like to travel, and I might take a mission trip to Africa summer of 1995, church building, or something. My musical interests mostly lie in anything but country/western.</p>
<p>I have spurts of maddness, but usualy I provide the sanity for my friends. If you get me in one of my ridiculous moods, it's very interesting. Those moods usualy have something to do with terribly iritating british accents and an over abundant supply of stupidity. I'm working on a theory... any day now.</p>
<p>Taz-Mania and Animaniacs provide wonderful entertainment; sometimes I think that Earth would be a better place if we were all cartoons. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

