---
layout:article
title: Telephone Bills
subtitle: Information About A Terran Communication Device Bill
author: Cem Unsal
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R16
pgg_date: 1992/01/13
article_date: 1992/01/13
alternative_title_1: MCI phone bill
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Mon, 1992-01-13 01:00
see_also: ["1R1", "1R17"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"M.S. Lauren, K.H. Zupta, \"An application of large number theory and stochastic processes: Bell Atlantic Phone Bills,\" Trans. Comm. Syst. 40(1987)576.","[2]":"\"Life on the Communication Devices: Selected horror stories\" Ed. by C. Unsal, pp.101-114, Xtrablatrum & Descendants Pub. Ltd. 1992."}
---
<div>
<p>For those who are familiar with Terran ways (Oh God! I'm a smart ass!), phone bills are one of the most important parts of the daily, er, monthly Terran life. In a nutshell, you get the bill by mail (ie, Terran mail, which is still performed by humanoids and with the use of 5 + 4 digit zip codes, as in the primitive days of the central Galaxy), you open it up, see the payment page, cry, and send the money (probably still crying, depending on the number of digits in the "amount due" rectangle).</p>
<p>Don't even think about throwing the first page away; you're required to "send it with your payment." And it may not be such a sad experience; you can still amuse yourself by filling the "amount paid" squares, say, by different colors. This page is also the most important and "informant" page of your bill. It has your name (or your roommate's name), your phone number with an additional 5 digits, your address (by the way, you can learn the additional 4 digits of your zip code from your phone bill... or from any other bill for that matter; remember, this is the information age around this planet), a couple of parallel lines, horizontal and vertical, which are -- I'm sure -- really important, and a fairly long number at the bottom, with 59 digits.</p>
<p>For those who are now taken by the dark forces of curiosity, let me explain to you what all this stuff is, although I'm not sure about the exact nature of this final number myself.</p>
<p>The first three digits don't make any sense to you (or me); the next three digits are your area code (ie, your phone's area code); then, an unnecessary zero and your phone number, followed by three familiar numbers from your account number. Then, a couple (actually, four) of nonsense digits and the last two digits of your account. Then comes three zeros and six mystery digits, a "train" of zeros with the amount due embedded in it (14436 in "this" case). Why 59 digits, you ask? It is proved in <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> that 59 digits are sufficient to represent all communication accounts in sixteen parallel universes. If you can bring yourself to see the other pages after you digest the total amount due, the next page is Page One. (Thus, we conclude payment = 0; therefore, for any real n, (n * payment) = 0, which makes sense in most cases.)</p>
<p>Page One shows your last bill total, your previous payment, and current charges. If your last bill total -- your previous payment -- is zero, you get a "thank-you-for-your-payment" message. "Current charges" shows you local and long-distance totals (by the way, on Earth, long distance doesn't mean what it sounds, probably because no one has tried to call a number in any other galaxy) and concludes with "Subtotal" which is actually the over-all total.</p>
<p>Then comes the second (third) page, which is some type of a manual to your phone bill. It explains (in "this" specific example your author tries to understand) those nice little "amount paid" boxes on the first, no, zero'th page. That is "important information."</p>
<p>OK, now we're looking at Page Three. The local call charges are shown: monthly charges, services not regulated by the State Corporated Commission (which means you're paying this amount for nothing), federal subscriber line charge (which I, myself, wasn't able to understand), local 911 tax, relay center surcharge (which seems highly unnecessary) and, local and federal taxes. You may be lost at this point. They know you are, that's why they explain that you can call the number on this page and ask. "They are easiest to reach on Tues through Thurs." (What are Tues and Thurs? Write it correctly, guys, you have three more -- empty -- lines below.)</p>
<p>Page Four comes with two unnecessary lines of "rate key" and that's it. And this the work of the people who try to save some paper by typing "Tues" instead of "Tuesday."</p>
<p>Page Five summarizes long distance calls and includes federal tax, state and local surcharges (which, I believe, should read "sur^3charges." Aren't we surcharged somewhere on Page Three?) Pages Six through Ten list your long distance calls: time, place, number, whatever. (By the way, all these numbers can change, especially on the last part since not much of you guys call long distance more than me.) Check these pages carefully; you won't believe your eyes ("Call to NYC at 01:55am?"; "Who talked to Turkey for 42 minutes? Oh, OK, that's mine"; "Where the hell is Kensington?"; "Hey guys, this means that we used the phone non-stop for four-and-a-half hours on Nov. 18th, nice!"; "God! I can't believe I called this guy in Pittsburgh 11 times in December!"; "What is this? Got an 'F' next to it and it still costs me 3 dollars!" [Remember it's never late to switch back]) <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>.</p>
<p>At the end of the long distance list, you get the definitions of the abbreviations which you may encounter while trying to figure out what is/was/will be what. ("Hey, this 'V' means 'free speech call.' How come we never get one of these? And, what is the exact meaning of 'free speech call' anyway? Does this mean we can say whatever we want?")</p>
<p>And on Page Ten, a word from your long distance company... You can send your friends and family gift certificates instead of -- simply -- calling them. And, also lots of registered mark signs. Some guy came up with the phrase "calling circle" and it's a registered trademark. What can I say? Brilliant! Ah, and this number for gift certificates... 1-800-395-GIVE. Why not make it easier to remember, something like... 1-800-111-GIVE, 1-800-MCI-GIVE, or 1-800-ASS-<strong>**</strong>. ("Come on guys, you're the phone company!") "Thank you and happy holidays from MCI friends and family." Oh-oh, not that close, you're just my long distance carrier, that's all.</p>
<p>Hey, they even provide the envelope!</p>
</div>
