---
layout:article
title: Water
subtitle: A Liquid Just Like Anybody Else
author: Rickard Andersson
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R169
pgg_date: 1994/11/17
article_date: 1994/11/17
alternative_title_1: Liquids
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1994-11-17 01:00
see_also: ["6R2", "2R29", "6R33"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Water is one of the most used liquids on the planet Earth. For example, approximately 70% of the Earth's surface are filled with water. By coincidence, the human body also contains 70% water. The relationship between these figures is easily understood, and will be thoroughly explained in the near future.</p>
<p>One thing that water is known to be is wet. But in cold places, water can be more hard than wet. To be more precise, this will happen when water is stored in places where the temperature is below 0 degrees Celsius. This form of frozen water is called ice. One of the best uses of ice is to cut it into small pieces, and put it into drinks and whiskey. Some of the higher intelligence life forms on Earth have learned to skate on the ice, most notably the humans and the elks.</p>
<p>One other form that water can be found in is when it has a temperature over 100 degrees Celsius. Water in this form is called steam, and is hard to see when you look for it. Steam is the way water goes when it tries to escape from the Earth. These attempts usually end with the fact that the steam falls down toward the Earth's surface again. When the water comes falling from the sky, the humans refer to it as rain. Rain is wet, and when rain isn't wet it's usually hard and frozen. The frozen water that is falling from the sky is called snow.</p>
<p>Most of the water that we use is fresh water. When you put salt in the fresh water, you get, not surprisingly, salt water. All the oceans on the Earth have been polluted with salt, and therefore contain salt water. Nobody remembers who it was that put the salt in the oceans. And to be frank, who care about it nowadays.</p>
<p>There is also the fact that scientists have found a way to make hard water. This type of water shall not be confused with any of the above mentioned types of water. It has a different atomic structure and you shouldn't be drinking it.</p>
<p>Many more facts about the subject of water can be told by your local scientist. I can promise you that they will be not only more accurate, but also more dull.</p>
</div>
