---
layout:article
title: Ogden, Utah, USA, Earth
subtitle: Og, City Of The Past
author: Alexander E. Cutshall
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R176
pgg_date: 1995/01/12
article_date: 1995/01/12
alternative_title_1: Pain Of Og
alternative_title_2: Og, City Of The Past
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1995-01-12 01:00
see_also: ["1S5", "1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Ogden is a city which is between Brigham City and Salt Lake City. This really tells you very little, unless you've actually been to Utah. It's north of Salt Lake City (about 30 Miles), and south of Brigham City. Hoopy it's not.</p>
<h3>Landmarks</h3>
<p>There are. You can see them, too. Those areas qualifying are:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Union Station, once a hub of transport for the west (Union Pacific), now museumish.</li>
<li value="2">The Egyptian Theatre. It's kinda just there, and people have been arguing about what to do with it for the past twenty years.</li>
<li value="3">Ogden City Mall. The epitome of shopping in Utah. Big and Dark.</li>
<li value="4">Grounds For Coffee. Yes, it's a nationwide chain, but here it's a way of life.</li>
<li value="5">Weber State University. Kinda big, lots of people. They have a Burger King. And their own satellite. And a radio station.</li>
<li value="6">"Historic" 25th street. Old, nice shops.</li>
<li value="7">I-15. An exit point, ever so useful.</li>
<li value="8">The Greyhound bus station. Slower exit point.</li>
<li value="9">Hollywood Video. New. Lots of videos to help you pass the agonizing hours.</li>
<li value="10">Weber County Library. Books. Again, a way to pass your time.</li>
</ol>
<h3>Transport</h3>
<ol>
<li value="1">A Car. Utah drivers are SCARY!!! Not recommended for beings with low pain threshold. Especially in winter, those who drive are horrifying (in general).</li>
<li value="2">The Bus. Weird people use it. It goes almost nowhere you want to be.</li>
<li value="3">Levitation. Not good for long distances.</li>
<li value="4">Walking. Ok, if you really want.</li>
</ol>
<h3>Natural Things</h3>
<ol>
<li value="1">Mountains. Nice to look at. No, really. Nice to look at.</li>
<li value="2">The Lake. In winter it's cool. In summer, makes the city stink like rotten brine shrimp.</li>
<li value="3">Mountains. Nice to look at. No, really. Nice to look at.</li>
</ol>
<h3>Warnings</h3>
<ol>
<li value="1">Remember, Ogden is in a temporal rift in which clothing, building styles, and people never really change.</li>
<li value="2">Remember how to leave.</li>
<li value="3">Leave. Now. Yes, leave Ogden now!</li>
<li value="4">Here people look weird at you if you do not drink coffee, as opposed to Provo, where people look weird at you if you drink coffee. In Moab, the coffee evaporates anyway, so no one cares.</li>
</ol>
</div>
