---
layout:article
title: Nimbin, New South Wales, Australia, Earth
subtitle: Coping With Hippies In Northern New South Wales
author: Kirrily Robert
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R189
pgg_date: 1995/03/23
article_date: 1995/03/23
alternative_title_1: Hippies
alternative_title_2: Drugs, Marijuana
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1995-03-23 01:00
see_also: ["1R1", "2S6"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Nimbin is a small country town inland of Byron Bay in Northern New South Wales, Australia. About twenty-five years ago, someone held a festival there, called the Aquarius Festival, and lots of hippies went there. They never left.</p>
<p>Nimbin is approached by a windy sealed road, meandering through rich cattle pasture. You turn a corner, and suddenly you're there. It's a strange town, having far too many craft shops and cafes for its own good, lots of people in caftans, and a green haze over the whole area. The most action- packed place in town is the footpath outside the museum, where people sit by the "Legalize Marijuana" stall and watch the world go by.</p>
<p>You may be familiar with "No Smoking" signs on retail premises. Nimbin is the only place I've ever seen that had "No Dealing" signs instead. Even in the newsagents.</p>
<p>If you stand on the street in Nimbin for more than five minutes, and you're not wearing a police uniform, you will be offered drugs. Don't bother buying them... if you wait a bit longer or hang out in the right places people will give them to you for free.</p>
<p>The only place to get money in Nimbin (unless you're dealing) is from the newsagents, who will let you withdraw money by EFT (electronic funds transfer) as long as you spend $5 there. Remember this, as you may need it.</p>
<p>The best place I found to stay in Nimbin was the backpackers' hostel, for about $12 Australian per night. Be prepared to be sociable (i.e., smoke drugs with the other residents), and keep your food locked away, or it will be stolen on a munchie raid. The hostel also has a lovely swimming pool, with a pebble interior and salt water. Be careful how you behave though. Nimbin backpackers is the only place I've ever known that kicked people out for "bad vibes."</p>
<p>There is also a hairdresser in Nimbin. I mention this only because I had a haircut when I was there, and was a little concerned about having my hair cut by someone who, in all probability, was going to see little green men crawling out of my hair. Actually she was quite safe, and surprisingly straight. And the haircut was only $10. She can be found on the left side of the road as you head towards the school from the centre of town.</p>
<p>There is a bus once or twice a day from Nimbin to Murwillumbah, and somewhat more often to Lismore. Don't mention computers to the driver -- he's a drop-out programmer and will tell you all about it. Also, don't be concerned by the hoards of screaming school children that will crowd the bus -- they all disembark long before Murwillumbah.</p>
<p>If you are going to visit Nimbin, be sure to take with you:</p>
<ul>
<li>sunscreen (it's hot up there)</li>
<li>drugs</li>
<li>money (for drugs, or for food which will be stolen)</li>
<li>tie-dyed clothes (to blend in with the natives)</li>
<li>a towel (for swimming, sleeping on in the middle of the main road, trading for drugs, etc)</li>
</ul>
<p>Enjoy!</p>
</div>
