---
layout:article
title: Ice Cubes
subtitle: What? Frozen water? Why Not Put It Into Cubes?
author: Rickard Andersson
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R194
pgg_date: 1995/04/11
article_date: 1995/04/11
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Tue, 1995-04-11 00:00
see_also: ["2R169"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>One of the big problems you as a hitchhiker can be faced with, are how to chill down the drink you most likely will drink when you are mingling with the local habitants at parties. The solution to this problem is just as simple as most other problems are after you have heard about the solution.</p>
<p>You just put some cubes of frozen water in the drink. That's it!</p>
<p>Not very technical and quite cheap according too recent studies. The drinks become more tasteful, this is also noted by the same studies. To be sure the study was correct, some experienced people used to drink things with or without ice cubes, performed a few practical tests. These test was conducted during a long...</p>
<p>...SSCCRRITTCCHH...</p>
<p>... we interrupt this article to bring you some PGG information. Clear your mind, here it comes.</p>
<p>Always remember to have the latest version of the PGG articles on your computer. After all, the articles are available for free from the Mothership.</p>
<p>Always remember to have the latest version of your favourite guide viewer on your computer. After all the guide viewers are available for free from the Mothership.</p>
<p>Always remember to write many PGG articles. After all the psychological reward is worth all the time writing and researching.</p>
<p>Always remember to feed all field researcher that comes researching in your neighbourhood. After all who wants to face a bad review of ones own neighbourhood in the PGG :-)</p>
<p>Thank you for your patience! Now back to the ordinary article...</p>
<p>...SSCCRRITTCCHH...</p>
<p>..concluding that ice cubes can make many drinks taste better and look more appetizing for the eye. Sometimes the ice cubes are crushed before they are put into drinks.</p>
<p>A cheap way to get your hands on ice cubes to your drinks, is to travel to the parts of Earth that produces ice naturally. These parts might not be the first choice for an inexperienced hitchhiker, which tends to hang out in a warmer climate. For the hitchhikers that prefers to do the research in warmer places, a refrigerator with a freezing compartment or a freeze comes in handy. With these fantastic machines the talented hitchhikers can make their very own ice cubes.</p>
<p>Just put water (preferable fresh) into some sort of box, why not choose an ice box. Make sure the temperature inside the freeze is lower than zero degrees Celsius, so that the water can transform into ice cubes. Wait for as long as it takes for the water to freeze. Open the freeze and take out the ice cubes. Now you can put your ice cubes into drinks or for fun inside some friend's shirt.</p>
<p>If somebody wants to put ice cubes in your drink, don't be alarmed that the drink will be ruined. It will be just as drinkable with frozen water in it, as long as the water was fresh before the freezing process. Watch out for signs saying <em>ice unsafe here</em> at parties.</p>
<p>This sign is of course more common to see around lakes, so at parties you can count on the ice to be quite unsafe if this sign appears.</p>
<p>Here is a tip on how you can make your ice cubes look a good deal better. Put fruits in the water and let it freeze into nicely looking ice cubes. For example you can freeze a strawberry in water and then put the resulting ice cube in a glass of champagne. Beware of using raisin for this trick; the ice cubes don't look any appetizing with a frozen raisin in it.</p>
<p>Lastly the topic of ice cubes in whiskey (a.k.a. having the whiskey on the rocks). Some people think that ice cubes and whiskey mixes together perfectly. While other says that whiskey shouldn't be mix with anything, especially not ice cubes. For myself I think a touch of cold water can add flavour to most brands of whiskey.</p>
</div>
