---
layout:article
title: Jolt Cola
subtitle: All The Sugar, Twice The Caffeine
author: Jonathan David Harmon
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R202
pgg_date: 1995/04/13
article_date: 1995/04/13
alternative_title_1: Liquid Sleep
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1995-04-13 00:00
see_also: ["2R175", "6R2"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>While many companies were beginning to catch on to the "health craze" in America, the Jolt-Company, Inc., of Rochester, New York, began to fill the opening void. Touting their product as containing "All the Sugar, Twice the Caffeine" of the leading cola (a take-off on the popular "half the sugar" ads of other products), Jolt slowly grew in popularity.</p>
<p>While Jolt is still rather difficult to come by in smaller towns, in college towns it is nearly as common as any other cola. In Houghton, Michigan, home of Michigan Technological University, a few stores even sell six packs (which are virtually unknown in smaller towns, such as Clio, Michigan).</p>
<p>The "Twice the Caffeine" claim is far from an exaggeration. According to the Coffee and Caffeine FAQ by Alejandro Lopez-Ortiz (<a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130205234132/mailto:alopez-o@neumann.uwaterloo.ca">alopez-o@neumann.uwaterloo.ca</a>), Jolt contains 100.0 mg caffeine per 12 oz can, while Mountain Dew, its most well known competitor in the Energy Pop category, contains only 55.0. Coca-Cola, it's most famous cola competitor, contains only 45.6 mg per 12 oz can. To add to its high energy level, Jolt is also high in sugar.</p>
<p>The best way to describe the taste of Jolt would be to have the reader imagine drinking an ordinary can of cola, with only one small modification. Check the side of the can containing the soda with which you are running this experiment. If the can happens to list the "Nutrition Facts" of your cola, the experiment can be run accurately. Under "Total Carbohydrates," check the listing for sugars. Subtract this number from 41 grams (the amount of sugar in a can of Jolt). This number is how much sugar you must add to your cola to approximate the taste. To quote one Jolt newbie, "It's sweet." Royal Crown Cola is already pretty close in taste, if you don't have a balance around with which to measure your sugar.</p>
<p>A list of locations around the world which sell Jolt is available on the Web at "<a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130205234132/http://www.best.com/~wilson/faq/">http://www.best.com/~wilson/faq/</a>". This list also includes the interesting tidbit that "Jolt is now illegal in Australia, due to its high content of caffeine," but this has not been confirmed by this writer.</p>
</div>
