---
layout:article
title: Rules Of Car Chasing
subtitle: Legal And Illegal
author: Scott Bale (a.k.a. Wild Cheese)
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R28
pgg_date: 1993/04/09
article_date: 1993/04/09
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1993-04-09 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>To be involved legally in a car chase you must somehow be an enforcer of the law, in which case the rules are: anything goes. Cut through yards, exit from entrance ramps, cut through department stores, run over fire hydrants, smash up your car or the bad guy's. As long as no one innocent is injured and no more than $50,000 in damage to public property occurs, you are well within the confines of appropriate social etiquette. If, as an officer of the law, you fail to apprehend the criminal in question, it is advisable to somehow crash your car and injure yourself "in the line of duty" to receive sympathy and lessen your chances of being reprimanded. I recommend jerking the wheel and allowing the car to careen into vacated but visible areas, such as public fountains. If possible, arrange for the car to overturn, crumple, or blow up.</p>
<p>To be involved illegally in a car chase you are probably breaking the law and therefore the rules are: anything goes. In fact, you have an advantage over enforcers of the law in that criminals are not expected to observe the $50,000 limit/no innocent victims rule. Whether or not to take advantage of this is a matter of personal taste. On one hand, plowing through a pack of Cub Scouts might improve your chances of escape if the cops can't follow you; on the other hand, getting pedestrians lodged up in the transmission might detract from your car's performance. Keep in mind that, on Earth, killing someone will almost certainly make your prison term much shorter. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

