---
layout:article
title: Mars, Possibility Of Life On
subtitle: Very Low
author: Daniel A. Bowman
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R35
pgg_date: 1993/06/21
article_date: 1993/06/21
alternative_title_1: Possibility Of Life On Mars
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Mon, 1993-06-21 00:00
see_also: ["2S20", "2U17", "2R34"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>All the data that is presently possessed about the possibility of microscopic life on the planet Mars comes from three experiments conducted by the Viking landers. These experiments were based on the assumption that living organisms eat, breathe, and give off waste products. The first experiment was called the labeled release experiment. For this experiment, some soil was placed in a container and moistened with a nutrient that contained radioactive carbon. The idea was that if there were any living organisms, they should eat the nutrient and emit gases containing the radioactive carbon. Large quantities of gas were in fact released.</p>
<p>The second experiment was called the pyrolytic release experiment. Its purpose was to detect photosynthesis. Soil was placed in a container that was filled with Martian-like atmosphere. The exception was that the carbon in the carbon dioxide was radioactive. The soil was then illuminated with artificial sun light. The theory was that if photosynthesis occurred, the organisms should contain the radioactive carbon. So the container was flushed of the gases and the soil was analyzed for radioactive carbon. Oddly, sometimes the results were positive, and sometimes they were negative.</p>
<p>The third was the gas exchange experiment. Its purpose was to detect respiration. Soil was dampened with the nutrient and placed in a container filled with the Martian-like atmosphere. The gases were then monitored, for if organisms were present in the soil, they should inhale and exhale, thereby changing the composition of the miniature atmosphere. As soon as the soil was dampened, large amounts of carbon dioxide and oxygen were given off. Unfortunately, the rate was exactly that which would be expected from a purely chemical reaction. It was decided that the soil must contain peroxides or superoxides that react with water. The apparently positive results from the labeled release experiment can be explained in the same way.</p>
<p>More information may become available when the Mars Observer, launched on 9-25-92, arrives in November of 1993. Its mission is to take pictures of Mars for one Martian year (687 Earth-days, I think).</p>
<p>There is also a slight possibility of life on a Mars (TM) candy bar. The chances are slim if you leave it wrapped until you are ready to consume it. However, it is best to be safe and examine the bar closely before eating. If any forms of animal life (fauna) are found, it is best to quickly knock them off with a deft flick of the finger and then to squash them, preferably with a facial tissue to minimize the mess. It is also possible, though highly unlikely, that there may be plant life (flora) on your Mars (TM) bar. If this is the case, do NOT eat the candy bar. M&amp;M/Mars has a guarantee of quality and freshness. If your bar does have a significant flora population, merely return it and the wrapper along with the reason you are returning it and where and when you bought it. M&amp;M/Mars will gladly replace your candy bar and make an effort to remedy the problem.</p>
<p>Bibliography:</p>
<blockquote>Kaufman, William J. III, <em>Planets and Moons</em> (1979)
<p>Leech, Jon, "Space FAQ 11/15 - Upcoming Planetary Probes" (1993)</p>
<p>M&amp;M/Mars Company, Mars Almond Bar Wrapper (1993)</p>
</blockquote>
</div>
