---
layout:article
title: Mensa
subtitle: The High-IQ Society
author: David K. Merriman
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 2R85
pgg_date: 1993/10/19
article_date: 1993/10/19
alternative_title_1: Intelligence Clubs
alternative_title_2: IQ Organizations
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Tue, 1993-10-19 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>What Mensa is and isn't:</p>
<p>First of all, the name "Mensa" is derived from the Latin word for "table"; the implication being that in Mensa, all members are equal when gathered together. Mensa members can be anything from trash collectors to salesmen to university physics professors; the SOLE requirement for membership is to score at or above the 98th percentile on any one of a number of recognized IQ tests.</p>
<p>The reason that the membership requirement is expressed as a percentile, as opposed to an IQ "score," is that the actual IQ resulting from a test may fluctuate wildly between tests. That is, on one test, one's IQ may measure at 133; on another test, it may measure at 141. In both cases, though, the <em>percentile</em> might be the same: 98%.</p>
<p>Membership in Mensa, as noted, only requires a single score at or above the 98th percentile for that test. One might take several tests, and only meet the Mensa requirements on one of them - but that one "passing" score is sufficient.</p>
<p>Mensa is a loose affiliation of national Mensa organizations, and within a national organization, there might be any number of local chapters. There exist Mensa organizations in the U.K., Canada, the U.S., South Africa, Japan, Malaysia, and many other countries.</p>
<p>Many Mensa members express surprise at meeting the qualifications for membership - a surprising number of them never particularly thought of themselves as "smart." Some in Mensa gain acceptance through presenting their national office with documented evidence of qualification; others will take the tests regularly offered by local chapters. In the United States, these testing sessions are generally offered monthly, and consist of two tests which the applicant must pay for. The testing session generally consists of a brief overview of what Mensa is, what the tests involve, and how the applicant will be informed of the results.</p>
<p>Some of the benefits of membership include social events such as parties for different holidays, picnics, and the like where all members are invited (generally held in someone's home), and what are called SIG's (Special Interest Groups), both on the local and national levels. There exist SIGs for virtually anything a person might be interested in - all the way from religion, philosophy, and sexuality to humor, firearms, and different kinds of games (though some argue that sexuality <em>is</em> a kind of game...). If there doesn't exist a SIG for some subject, the members are encouraged to form one; the costs involved in SIG membership vary from free to covering the costs of materials for newletters.</p>
<p>There are also larger, more formal gatherings, for such things as new member welcomes and what are called Regional Gatherings (RG's) - which are essentially 3-day non-stop parties. Most national and local groups offer some kind of publications; for the United States, the national magazine is the Bulletin, for the North Texas Mensa chapter, it is called the M-Aura; these magazines include such things as articles by and about Mensans, puzzles, games, letters, calendar events, and even classified advertising. There is also a certain amount of exchange of information between national organizations - typically requests for pen-pals, national gathering schedules, and so on.</p>
<p>As mentioned above, the professions of Mensa members fluctuate wildly; it would be fair to say that the personalities of members also fluctuate, even more wildly. There are the Genuine Characters, as well as those than almost anyone would be glad to know and have as a friend. Generally, though, Mensa members are a sociable (!) group, where the members are free to talk and discuss on a wide variety of subjects (!!) without concern that the person they're talking with won't be able to "keep up" with them. There is very little discussion of an individuals' IQ - the general consensus is that the fact that someone is a member indicates that they're smart <em>enough</em>. The only exception to this are occasional references to Densa, a fictitious group of people who scored at the BOTTOM 2% (Mensa's mirror image).</p>
<p>Mensa members, when together, are generally not afraid to ask questions - frequently from hard-learned experience, they understand that knowledge does not transfer by osmosis. Mensa, as with any group, has it's share of assholes or one kind or another; but the consolation is that they're <em>intelligent</em> assholes.</p>
<p>If you think that you would like to find out if you could qualify for Mensa membership, or are simply interesting in finding out just what your IQ is, you should be able to find out if there is a Mensa organization in your country by checking the telephone book from a larger metropolitan area. If you can't find out that way, you can try subscribing to the rec.org.mensa newsgroup on Internet, and asking there - someone will certainly get back to you with an answer (just make sure you leave a valid Email address, or some means of contacting you, if you can't check back frequently). For the United States, you may contact the national office of Mensa at:</p>
<blockquote>American Mensa, Ltd.<br>
2626 East 14th St.<br>
Brooklyn, NY 11235-3992 USA<br>
(718) 934-3700</blockquote>
<p>They will be happy to assist you in finding out if you meet the membership requirements. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

