---
layout:article
title: Work
subtitle: Earthling's "Work" And The Result Of It To Himself And Others
author: Sam Craghead (scrag@crash.cts.com),
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 2S12
pgg_date: 1992/12/10
article_date: 1992/12/10
alternative_title_1: Occupation
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1992-12-10 01:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>WORK. This is what the people of Earth engage in for most of their lives. By "working" they get "money" which they use to buy things which other people have produced at their WORK. WORK is also known as an OCCUPATION. If you are a worker you get a lot of mail addressed to "occupant."</p>
<p>Some work is called drudgery and is filled with physical toil. Some workers work by sitting at their desks writing on bits of paper which they then pass to other workers like themselves who nod their heads and take another bit of paper and write on it. This piece of paper is called a MEMO and most of their time is spent writing and nodding over memos. These workers can practice their nodding while driving to work by placing a doll in the rear window of their cars, and then observing the nodding technique by watching the doll nod in the rear view mirror.</p>
<p>This same worker will spend a lot of his workday in meetings (a meeting is a gathering of memo producers and nodders like himself) where he will nod his head up and down to much that is said, give a satisfied smile, and leave the meeting to go to another meeting or go back to his desk to make and nod over more memos. This worker will spend a great deal of time telling everyone he meets how hard he is working. This latter type of worker will get more money for his work than the worker who is engaged in physical toil. This fact remains inexplicable because the worker who goes to the meetings and works on "memos" doesn't seem to produce anything which another worker would wish to buy. We have never found anyone selling memos. There just doesn't seem to be any demand for them except at the workplace, and this demand seems to be confined to other workers who nod and make and pass memos.</p>
<p>There are some workers, however, who have become so adept at screwing a nut onto a bolt minute by minute, hour by hour, day by day, that they get more money than either of the other two types of workers. He is made a member of a union.</p>
<p>Money is the device used to purchase produced products. This money consists of pieces of paper (this paper is much different than a memo as it is considered to have value) and denotes value above "change." Change used to be called "silver" and "copper," but now the "silver" is copper and the "copper" has been made from aluminum. The color of each of these particular items has remained "silver" and "copper." The reason for this has never been disclosed.</p>
<p>In some places on Earth, many of the people have found that they do not have to work at all to get money. They just identify themselves as "poor," "disadvantaged," or as a "victim" of "the system"; they then receive money. As the number of workers dwindles, and the number of these "poor," "disadvantaged," or "victims" grows, there will one day be no workers; just those receiving money by certifying their status as "poor," "disadvantaged," or "victim." There is no corresponding group replacing the workers making products, so when the "poor," "disadvantaged," and "victims" have completely replaced the workers, there will probably be nothing left to buy except old memos. This may be the means for creating a wider demand for that product. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

