---
layout:article
title: What To Do When Your Elected Head Of State Embarrasses You
subtitle: Keep reminding Yourself, "You Could Have Done Worse"
author: Loren Haarsma, Andrew Mark Kuchling
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 2S4
pgg_date: 1992/02/10
article_date: 1992/02/10
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Mon, 1992-02-10 01:00
see_also: ["2S3"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>WHAT TO DO WHEN YOUR ELECTED HEAD OF STATE EMBARRASSES YOU BY...</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">...TRAVELING TO ANOTHER COUNTRY AND TRYING TO FORCE THAT COUNTRY TO ACCEPT THE BLAME FOR YOUR SOCIAL/ECONOMIC/MORAL PROBLEMS OF YOUR DEVISING.
<p>Consider how lucky you are that you didn't elect a Head of State with no foreign policy experience whatsoever.</p>
</li>
<li value="2">...MAKING SPEECHES DURING WHICH THEY PROPOSE THAT THE BEST WAY TO SOLVE NATIONAL ECONOMIC/SOCIAL/HEALTH/EDUCATIONAL PROBLEMS IS FOR INDIVIDUALS TO CHANGE THEIR BEHAVIOR, RATHER THAN BY SPENDING GOVERNMENT MONEY.
<p>Consider the fact that they are probably correct, especially when you take into account the fundamental nature of politics, governments, and bureaucracies.</p>
</li>
<li value="3">...CHOOSING A VICE-HEAD-OF-STATE WHOSE PRIMARY QUALITY IS WIDELY CONSIDERED (REGARDLESS OF THE TRUTH OF THE PERCEPTION) TO BE THEIR ABILITY TO SUPPLY STAND-UP COMEDIANS WITH MATERIAL.
<p>Support weapons control legislation. Contribute to medical research.</p>
</li>
<li value="4">... SPENDS INORDINATE AMOUNTS OF TIME AND MONEY ON OBSCURE LEGAL QUESTIONS REGARDING THE CONSTITUTION.
<p>Remember that a dollar spent on satellite links between Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan and Goose Bay, Newfoundland is a dollar not spent on curtains for the Head of State's mother's friend's house.</p>
</li>
<li value="5">... CARRIES OUT MONUMENTALLY STUPID POLICIES, RESULTING IN S/HE BEING LESS POPULAR THAN CLINICALLY INSANE MEMBERS OF THE KLU KLUX KLAN, GREEN VEST SOCIETY, OR THE DECALEGGED BEING LIBERATION FRONT.
<p>Swallow your principles and fight for the incumbent incompetent.</p>
</li>
<li value="6">... CARRIES OUT MONUMENTALLY STUPID POLICIES AND ACTIONS, RESULTING IN S/HE LOSING AN ELECTION TO CLINICALLY INSANE MEMBERS OF THE KLU KLUX KLAN, GREEN VEST SOCIETY, OR THE DECALEGGED BEING LIBERATION FRONT.
<p>Move to somewhere relaxingly idyllic and safe, like a naked singularity.</p>
</li>
<li value="7">... MAKES COMMENTS ABOUT POLLUTION-CAUSING TREES, RADIATION BEING GOOD FOR THE SINUSES, AND BOMBING THE ENEMY BACK TO THE PRE-CABLE AGE.
<p>Celebrate the fact that you have a Head of State capable of hiring a great many advisors and then ignoring them completely.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</div>
