---
layout:article
title: Nursing Homes
subtitle: Habitations Of The Aged, And How To Survive A Trip To One
author: Jeff Kramer
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 2S46
pgg_date: 1994/07/10
article_date: 1994/07/10
alternative_title_1: Carpet, Brown Static
alternative_title_2: Odors, Nursing Homes
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Sun, 1994-07-10 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>A strange phenomenon among the older inhabitants of Earth is the propensity to occupy something called "Nursing Homes." Nursing Homes are large collections of older people packed into a small area with lots of strange things. For the hitchhiker the most important things to remember about Nursing Homes are:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Never inhale; breathe through your towel. Medical science has yet to identify half of the odors you can find in a nursing home. Many of the strange odors come from liquids that could eat through a foot-thick lead wall in a matter of seconds. It is suggested that you also take along some industrial quality air freshener.</li>
<li value="2">Look purposeful. If you don't want to be stopped as a nurse or doctor, don't ask for it. Smile a little as you pass people, don't stand in one spot for more time than you have to, and never look like you're lost.</li>
<li value="3">Don't get roped into conversations with the locals. The last thing you want is to be stuck listening to someone old enough to have parented the entire Russian empire telling you about their great-grandkids.
<p>However, there is a small exception to this rule: there are some people in nursing homes that can be very helpful. You never know what someone might have done before they succumbed to old age.</p>
</li>
<li value="4">Try not to touch anything metallic. The floors of many nursing homes are covered with a special form of carpet (most of which is brown). This carpet has the ability to build up static faster than a balloon rubbed against a blonde's head. Touching metal after walking even a few feet across this carpet could cause severe bodily harm.</li>
<li value="5">Use the stairs as much as possible. Normally if you step into a elevator, item #3 (above) will probably result, and to get an elevator, you will probably have to do item #4, and you look much more #2 if you walk down a stairway.</li>
<li value="6">If possible, carry a clipboard; this will add to your ability to do as you wish without being questioned. Act like you're inspecting the pipes, make up a name of a safety requirement, or whatever.</li>
</ol>
<p>If you pay attention to the above guidelines, you will have a much better probability of surviving a visit to a Nursing Home. I wouldn't suggest it, but hey, it's your life. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

