---
layout:article
title: Wolverhampton, England, UK, Earth
subtitle: Centre Of The Unknown Universe
author: Stephen Casey
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 2S52
pgg_date: 1994/07/17
article_date: 1994/07/17
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Sun, 1994-07-17 00:00
see_also: ["1R1"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"If anyone happens to know where he mentions it, please mail me! I think it was on a right hand page of a paperback copy."}
---
<div>
<p>The first thing to note is that if anyone ever discovers what universe Wolverhampton is the centre of, RUN. Stories of Wolverhampton are many and varied. Not ALL of these are true, but it is fair to say that only the good ones should be ignored. One of these stories includes a mention by the unknown author, Douglas N. Adams <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>Geographically, it is located fairly close to Birmingham, and not really that close to anywhere else of interest. This is not to say that Birmingham is interesting, but that is another story. It is also, rather disturbingly, in the West Midlands shire of the UK.</p>
<p>To the casual observer, these facts may not seem too disturbing, but to the more wary, or seasoned hitchhiker, they will mean one thing:, the West Midlands accent. This excuse for a means of communication is so rough, and difficult to understand that even babel fish (if they were to exist) would be stumped as to their meaning. They have been known to cause huge queues of people, waiting to be served at bars, while the bartender attempts to discover what a GeyaennTunic is.</p>
<p>Depending on the time of year, the population fluctuates wildly. This can almost immediately be blamed on the fact that the local university plays host to some 18 thousand students. These of course all leave as soon as it becomes apparent that nothing is to be learned, either because of reasons beyond comprehension, or because of holidays. For some reason however, every year, when term resumes, they return. During these empty periods however, the town becomes akin to a morgue. The nightlife simmers down to a mere bubble, and many of the nightclubs close. You have been warned.</p>
<p>The situation when the students take up residence however is totally different. Many clubs are available, mostly to serve the every need of the rather inebriated student. Some of these are listed here.</p>
<h3>The Web</h3>
<p>Could also be termed the "Firetrap." Two kinds of people attend this particular gathering: first year students that don't know any better, and seasoned students that know where the fire exits are. Other than that, quite nice.</p>
<h3>Fatty Arbuckles</h3>
<p>Named after a Hollywood star of old, this place is almost the complete nemesis of the Web. All sorts of people attend and enjoy complete segregation due to the large area the club takes up.</p>
<h3>The Dorchester</h3>
<p>A once semi-respectable club that took to the idea of aiming at students. Since this, they have decided that the height of fashion would be to invite Danni Minogue to perform in front of selected victims, also known as clients. Note to all straight hitchhikers: be careful which night you attend due to the gay nights; on non-gay nights, beware of which stairs you go down to get to the toilets - the club often does mixed student/gay club nights.</p>
<p>There are several other clubs in Wolverhampton, but many of them change name/management way too often to keep track of. The usual method of deciding which club to go to is to throw a stone along the ground and go to whatever club flyer the stone lands on.</p>
<p>The selection of pubs is wide and varied. It is difficult to recommend any however, as they have a bad habit of completely changing style overnight to compensate for bad profits the night before. A good guide is to check the occupants for tatoos on their necks, if found, with such words as punks or skins on them - leave the building immediately. One exception to this rule is the Posada, which is a thoroughly welcoming pub.</p>
<p>Honourable mention also goes to this author's favourite pub in the UK. This pub is called the Newhampton, and is situated some 20 minutes walk away from the centre. If you visit the town, go there.</p>
</div>
