---
layout:article
title: Non-Alcoholic Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster -- Terran Version
subtitle: New Non-Alcoholic Drink, Made For Earth
author: Gilman Tolle
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 2S56
pgg_date: 1994/07/09
article_date: 1994/07/09
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Sat, 1994-07-09 00:00
see_also: ["1S1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>After reading in the Guide about the Terran Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster (PGGB), I have decided to design my own Non-Alcoholic version for the younger fans, of which I happen to belong. My brother helped in the creation of this article, and he wants to be mentioned. (Hi, Ian!)</p>
<p>So here we go:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Take the liquid from any clear soda you have available, because you will see everything clearly after this drink. Cherry flavoring enhances the savor of the drink.</li>
<li value="2">Slowly pour in blue coloring for a wonderful color, because seeing is always believing. (This is optional, in case you don't have any food coloring.)</li>
<li value="3">Let Coke, Pepsi, or whatever you prefer, run into the mixture. Be mesmerized by the spreading blackness like the black holes of space.</li>
<li value="4">Speedily stirring the mixture, add orange juice in honor of the brave oranges who died to give you this drink. Revel in the circular logic of this statement.</li>
<li value="5">Over the back of a silver spoon, spill a spoonful of sugar, in commemoration of all the hyperactive children in the galaxy. Rubberize your walls, for you shall be bouncing off of them.</li>
<li value="6">Drop in a single chocolate chip. This does not add much to the flavor, but it is a treat for the end.</li>
<li value="7">Finally, sprinkle Gatorade over the mixture. Let the complex carbohydrates and replenishing minerals confuse your mind with their utter uselessness, even though everybody thinks they help.</li>
</ol>
<p>Now you have the drink, and you are in the correct frame of mind to drink it, if you followed all the instructions up to now.</p>
<p>Drink carefully.</p>
<p>Drink some more carefully.</p>
<p>The hell with carefulness, just drink it.</p>
<p>Enjoy.</p>
</div>
