---
layout:article
title: Australia, Earth
subtitle: A Short Look At Australia, Earth
author: Daniel Bowen
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 2S6
pgg_date: 1992/06/25
article_date: 1992/06/25
alternative_title_1: Down Under
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1992-06-25 00:00
see_also: ["2S5", "1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>While Australia, Earth, is well known by many humans as being the home of the "Crocodile Dundee" movies, most Australians know Australia as being the place where they live, or the place where they come from.</p>
<p>A famous writer, the name of which is insignificant, and un-remembered, once wrote of Australia:</p>
<blockquote>I love a sunburnt country,<br>
A land of sweeping plains,<br>
Of rugged mountain ranges,<br>
Of droughts, and flooding rains.</blockquote>
<p>While this may not be a work of literary genius, or take into account the very high proportion of Australians who prefer to live in sprawling cities than in sweeping plains or mountain ranges, it is remarkable how the first three lines align like that, isn't it?</p>
<p>Amongst the leagues of completely unknown and unimportant Australians are some well-known and unimportant ones, such as (in no apparent order):</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Paul Hogan - alleged actor and wife-deserter</li>
<li value="2">Clive James - humorist who prefers living in Britain</li>
<li value="3">Nicole Kidman - actress who married Tom Cruise and subsequently found a Hollywood career</li>
<li value="4">Elle MacPherson - bimbo</li>
<li value="5">Mel Gibson - alleged actor II</li>
<li value="6">Greg Norman - Australian golfer with an American accent</li>
<li value="7">Peter Garrett (of Midnight Oil) - bald singer who can't dance</li>
<li value="8">Michael Hutchence (of INXS) - hairy singer</li>
<li value="9">Kylie Minogue - bimbo singer and bad soapie actress</li>
<li value="10">Olivia Newton John - former bimbo singer and "Grease" star. Ugh.</li>
<li value="11">Peter Allen - bad cabaret singer, whose singing improved remarkably when he died in 1992</li>
<li value="12">the entire casts of "Neighbors," "Home and Away," "A Country Practice," "Young Doctors," and "Prisoner," all of whom have terrorized Great Britain for some time now with their cheap and very bad soap operas</li>
</ol>
<p>This list has only included a few people. There are about seventeen million more. If you are thinking of joining them (i.e., immigrating, from either another country on Earth, or from somewhere else in the galaxy), think twice. Then do it anyway.</p>
</div>
