---
layout:article
title: AAAA
subtitle: Anonymous Acronym Abuse Association
author: Rickard Andersson
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 2S62
pgg_date: 1995/01/19
article_date: 1995/01/19
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1995-01-19 01:00
see_also: ["2S61", "2U73"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>The AAAA is a little known association but it has a numerous amount of people as members. Because all you have to do to become an AAAA member is to use an acronym once in a lifetime, preferably your own. This makes almost every human on earth a likely candidate for the AAAA, and the AAAA can thus be seen as a home for all humans that have used or are using acronyms. If you feel that you haven't joined the AAAA yet, go ahead and write one or more acronyms. Now feel the joy of being a member of yet another association.</p>
<p>There are some organizations that have taken as their task to fight the AAAA and its members. One of the most unknown is AAAAAAA, which stands for the All-American Association Against Acronym Abuse Anonymous. As you all can imagine their struggle to keep acronyms from being used are doomed. To be honest the AAAAAAA has quickly disqualified itself from the fight by using their own acronym in public. A not very intelligent move from the AAAAAAA, that has left the AAAA with more members than anyone cares to count.</p>
<p>"Acronyms -- what are they," some of you might be asking yourself at this point. Well, the word AAAA is of course an acronym and it can be substituted with the four words Anonymous Acronym Abuse Association. So there you have it. An acronym is a short way of saying something longer with a smaller set of characters than was necessary without the acronym.</p>
</div>
