---
layout:article
title: Skoevde, Sweden, Earth
subtitle: Hoopiest Place Of Sweden... NOT!!!
author: Roberth Karman
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 2S64
pgg_date: 1995/02/15
article_date: 1995/02/15
alternative_title_1: Skovde, Sweden, Earth
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Wed, 1995-02-15 01:00
see_also: ["2S10", "1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>If you have ever heard of Sweden you have probably never heard of Skoevde. That's because you don't want to!</p>
<p>The absolutely most exciting thing about Skoevde is its students. If you are lucky you might see one of those hoopiest creatures of Sweden. The students of Skoevde can be put into two categories:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">The studying ones (dull and bureaucratic)</li>
<li value="2">The Partying ones (Hikers like me!)</li>
</ol>
<p>The people of category 1 can easily be spotted. They wear boring clothes and are always looking for their pen instead of their towel. You should always try to avoid these people, since they have a bad habit of always stating a conversation about the world's economic state or asking you questions about your social position.</p>
<p>The other (hoopy) people are dressed in colourful overalls and smile all the time. These cool people can tell you where to get a good snack and a cold beer (with peanuts) for the lowest price! They are often spotted in small groups (2-10) and often the are singing (well-known tunes as "Jarnvagsbommar," "Jag vill ut och gasqua," and so on).</p>
<p>If you are from the outermost parts of the galaxy and get stuck in Skoevde, Don't Panic. Green persons with two heads and antennas are not unfamiliar to the citizens of Skoevde. Just ask when the next spaceship will arrive and they will tell you, and then go visit the "pizzeria Nilen" and have a pizza while waiting.</p>
<p>Have fun, and if you ever get here... visit me!</p>
</div>
