---
layout:article
title: Seize The Day
subtitle: A Hitchhikers' Motto
author: Jeff Kramer
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 2S68
pgg_date: 1995/02/16
article_date: 1995/02/16
alternative_title_1: Carpe Diem
alternative_title_2: Listlessness
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1995-02-16 01:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Remember back in school, when the teacher would hand out the final exam and you just wished you could be somewhere else? Anywhere else, even (I gasp at the thought) hitchhiking across the galaxy? Well now those days are here. Your cracking your way through casbahs, thumbing rides with people of questionable morals, and giving your towel a good workout, Galactic Guide in hand, to be sure.</p>
<p>Well, what do you do when you just don't have the drive to peek over the next mountain top? To climb the next hill, to thumb the next ride? What do you do then? Well, you consult your handy Galactic Guide and look up the entry on Seizing the Day! (Also known as Carpe Diem, a saying popularized by many a tee shirt and sweatshirt on a college campus.) Well, here it is... what do you do when you just can't do it anymore?</p>
<p>You do it anyway!!!! You prove those people who said that you couldn't hitchhike from Atlanta to Sri Lanka wrong! You throw your fears to the wind, clench your jaw, and run with it!</p>
<p>OK, OK. Your saying, "But I <em>can't</em> that's the problem...". Well, I say you can. I say you should, but not just for you... or for me, but for all beingkind! What would our world be like if we didn't have people who laughed in the face of danger, who said yes when everyone else said no, who made it their mission to prove everyone else wrong! We'd still be living in caves, beating each other over the head with clubs, and eating our meat raw! This galaxy needs a few brave souls who will dare to do what everyone else thought impossible. So buck up, lil' camper! Grab your towel, grab your Guide, grab 30 Altarian dollars a day, and hit the byways and skyways.</p>
<p>To those people who tell you you're crazy, that you're nuts... that you haven't got a chance... tell them to go stick their head in a pig, and do it anyway! Now get out there and HITCHHIKE!!!!!! <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

