---
layout:article
title: Recreational Impossibilities
subtitle: Fun And Games For The Improbable Sports Enthusiast
author: Jeremy Goldman (not available via Internet)
factuality: UnReal
pgg_id: 2U11
pgg_date: 1987/05/02
article_date: 1987/05/02
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Sat, 1987-05-02 00:00
see_also: ["2U1", "2U10"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>In the universe, there are several things that are considered Recreational Impossibilities (depending on your species of course) that people try doing to relive their boredom. If you are one of those rich kids who are tired of doing silly things such as being a teaser, here's something new.</p>
<p>These listings are in the Guide somewhere, so don't panic.</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Flying - one of the most popular Recreational Impossibilities.</li>
<li value="2">Walking Through Mountains - Now this is a hard one. But look it up anyway.</li>
<li value="3">Trying To Get The Brantisvogan Civil Service To Acknowledge A Change of Address - Boffo</li>
<li value="4">Learning To Play The Octaventral Heebiephone - Since this is only possible if you have eight mouths, a pleasantly futile task.</li>
<li value="5">Surviving Within A Five-Mile Radius Of A Disaster Area Concert - see Disaster Area</li>
<li value="6">Reading Vogon Poetry Without Going Mad - Hoo boy. See poetry.</li>
<li value="7">Surviving A Whelk's Chance In A Supernova - Don't mind the Whelk.</li>
<li value="8">Learning All The Languages In The Galaxy - Listen up you immortals! Here's something to get your mind off things.</li>
<li value="9">Trying To Become Immortal - Many people have ended up looking very silly, or very dead, or both, trying this. See Immortals.</li>
<li value="10">Figuring Out The Question To The Answer To Life The Universe And Everything - good luck!</li>
<li value="11">Trying To Pay With An American Express Card - Don't try this in the Old Pink Dog bar.</li>
<li value="12">Surviving Any Of The Above - Don't ask why, but if you are bored, anything will do.</li>
</ol>
</div>
