---
layout:article
title: Mars, Hailing A Taxi On
subtitle: The Local Customs Of Taxi Acquisition
author: Scott Bale (a.k.a. Wild Cheese)
factuality: UnReal
pgg_id: 2U17
pgg_date: 1993/04/09
article_date: 1993/04/09
alternative_title_1: Taxis, How To Summon On Mars
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1993-04-09 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Mars and the many cultures therein, although enlightened, have some weird quirks. Among them is the taxi hailing ritual. Practiced chiefly in the larger cities of the A'Grumpf'yo ("Wily-Speckled moose-like creatures that smell of fruit"), it is inevitably a surprise to tourists and rarely executed the correct way.</p>
<p>The A'Grumpf'yo people believe that a sacrifice must be made to the Martian god of taxis, Moo. The proper procedure is to sacrifice a small salad on the side of the road; this is done by dousing it with gasoline and igniting it, then beating it to a pulp with a stick. Although it seems odd to attempt to sacrifice a salad, which is clearly not a living entity (anymore), this fact is either lost to the Martians or they refuse to acknowledge it due to the strength of tradition.</p>
<p>A taxi driver, upon seeing a potential customer waving the maimed salad, pulls over and the second part of the ritual agreement begins. The customer-to-be dons the salad bowl (on his head), sits on the top of the cab and moos his appreciation to the god Moo; the taxi driver pops the hood of the car and "feeds" the salad sacrifice to the automobile by stuffing it in a special tank made for that purpose, which distributes the scent of the salad incense throughout the vehicle, which supposedly is found pleasing by Moo. Gifts are exchanged between the driver and customer, at which point the driver proceeds to take the customer to his destination. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

