---
layout:article
title: Sexual Differences In Aliens
subtitle: An Example Of How Sexual Habits Can Vary From Galaxy To Galaxy
author: Curt Siffert
factuality: UnReal
pgg_id: 2U29
pgg_date: 1993/10/14
article_date: 1993/10/14
alternative_title_1: Spraticon-V, Sexual Literature And Customs
alternative_title_2: Sex, Alien
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1993-10-14 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>It's been a hard night zooming through the universe. You've jumped three freighters, a cruiser, and a junk collector, and none of them have had a comfortable cot. You're beyond the point of sleep now, your towel has an unidentifiable stain, you're low on peanuts, and all of a sudden you realize that you are near some aliens that look like they might be similar to your appropriate preferred gender.</p>
<p>All of a sudden, you want some action.</p>
<p>Hey, don't be embarrassed. It's perfectly natural - a great way to relieve tension after a strenuous zip through hyperspace. However, you must first be aware of the possible pitfalls in progressive procreation.</p>
<p>The main thing is that genders, no matter what kind of gender we may be referring to, are full of surprises. While presenting steamy stories about hermaphrodites or three-breasted creatures may illuminate you or even titillate you after your hard day's travelling, a piece of erotic literature from the tiny planet Spraticon-V will probably provide you with the insight you need to follow your urges safely.</p>
<p>This piece of literature is one of the only scraps of knowledge we have coming from this planet. Due to their almost negative-population growth, the inhabitants of Spraticon-V do not partake in inter-planetary export. The literature you are about to read is a telling tale of the Spraticon-V culture.</p>
<pre>
Note:  Certain Spraticon-V terminology was left in, so as to provide
       an accurate flavor to the experience.
</pre>
<p>-----</p>
<p>It was a cold night on Spraticon-Five. Spleeg Flumm wangled his florg around in a circle. The night was making him shriddy, and he was ready for action.</p>
<p>And there she was. Spleeg instantly wrinkled his morf, thinking it made him look cool. It worked.</p>
<p>"Hey, baby," said she, "shall we find a flibbite?"</p>
<p>Spleeg plebbled. This was going well. "What's your name, honey?" he asked.</p>
<p>"Fem! Fem In-In!" she answered gaily. She tossed three of her fackles back, and they reflected in the moonslight.</p>
<p>The two maters joined glicks and walked off in search of their last part. And there fle was. "Look at flim!" exclaimed Spleeg. "Fle is <strong>portrid</strong>!"</p>
<p>"Yeah, fle is!" Fem hargled and mooeyed. She quoomed and blurked. She thought this would grab flis attention, and she was right! It did!</p>
<p>The flibbite rockled up to them. "Well, hey hey! Aren't you a cute couple of medgies!"</p>
<p>Fem and Spleeg purkied. This was ideal. They immediately put their fackles together and came up with a plan.</p>
<p>Seventeen units later, Spleeg, Fem, and the Flibbite, Uhuhuhuh, were in Spleeg's dwelling. Spleeg was already so shriddy that he got right down to business.</p>
<p>"Uhuhuhuh! Go over there! Fem! Take off your moooooo!" he ordered, with a crazed look in his ficks.</p>
<p>Uhuhuhuh knew the routine. Fle went over behind the sofa and started gyrating in place. "OH, george HAR-rison! OH, george HAR-rison!" fle screamed rhythmically.</p>
<p>Fem ripped off her moooooo and started meckelling coyly. "You <strong>must</strong> pay the rent! I <strong>can't</strong> pay the rent!"</p>
<p>Spleeg ripped off his mork, proudly exposing his above-average feen. It was perfectly flat and gleaming, and had more surface area than Fem had ever seen before!</p>
<p>"OH!" exclaimed Fem, and she dove towards him. Four of her fackles splatted against the feen before Spleeg grunted with satisfaction.</p>
<p>"NOW, UHUHUHUH, NOW!" screamed Spleeg, as Fem started to turn black.</p>
<p>Uhuhuhuh was all too ready to oblige. "OH, george HAR-rison!" fle screamed one last time before fle leapt up into the air. And then, all of a sudden, fle opened up like a mongoroose and enclosed the other two with his oopaloop!</p>
<p>A look of ecstasy crossed Uhuhuhuh's fackles as the other two moved underneath flim. "OH, george HAR-rison!" fle screamed repeatedly as the shapes moved beneath flis oopaloop.</p>
<p>The screams beneath flim increased in volume and intensity until finally, Fem exploded in a shattering "I'LL PAY THE RENT!!!" and a brownish goo leaked out from under Uhuhuhuh.</p>
<p>Uhuhuhuh retracted off of Fem and Spleeg, went over to the sofa, and sat down. After a moment, Spleeg, weary and shaken, joined flim. And finally, Fem reformed out of the brown goo, carrying a smaller creature in her glicks. She went over to the sofa and shared her creation with the other two. They all skooed and fayed repeatedly over the small creature. Then they ate it and smoked cigarettes.</p>
<p>The End. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

