---
layout:article
title: Reality Alteration
subtitle: All A Hitchhiker Needs To Know About Propaganda
author: Robert Kopp III
factuality: UnReal
pgg_id: 2U70
pgg_date: 1994/07/22
article_date: 1994/07/22
alternative_title_1: Alteration Of Reality
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1994-07-22 00:00
see_also: ["2U61"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Reality is not static. All persons have a different view of the Whole Sort of General Mish Mash. However, most of them agree on most points. These people can be said to be in the same Reality, or Universe. By changing the view, you can change the Reality.</p>
<p>However, most people will not be convinced of the reality of the new Reality unless they are convinced of its reality. Therefore, one must produce propaganda. This works best if you believe what you are saying.</p>
<p>Once you produce the propaganda, you must convince people that it is real. You should destroy all evidence to the contrary. This includes, of course, your knowledge of doing this. To do this, you must lock away part of your brain. The easiest way of doing this is through hypnosis.</p>
<p>In other words, all you need is propaganda and evidence (or lack there of). Once you have convinced enough people of the new Reality so that they will not be forced from their view, you have changed your location in Probability.</p>
<p>For example, let's say that you wanted to move to a Reality where Vogons never existed. You must produce propaganda to this effect. You must also destroy Vogsphere and all the Vogons in the Universe. You must also destroy all references to Vogons. Within a few years, most people will have been converted to your new Reality.</p>
<p>The skill of altering Reality can be very useful to a hitchhiker. It is advisable that you learn how to do it easily.</p>
</div>
