---
layout:article
title: Scott's Insurance
subtitle: Most Successful Insurance Company in Creation
author: Scott Gastineau
factuality: UnReal
pgg_id: 2U77
pgg_date: 1994/11/21
article_date: 1994/11/21
alternative_title_1: Insurance Policies
alternative_title_2: Money for Nothing
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Mon, 1994-11-21 01:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>It is common knowledge that within some quadrants of the galaxy, Insurance Salesman are the most feared form of life ever to move between planets. With such sentiments often running wild in the galaxy as a whole, it would only seem logical that successful insurance companies are rare. Strangely enough, the opposite is true.</p>
<p>Insurance is a highly successful business in which to become involved. For example, I know one fellow by the name of Andrew the Drew from Henderson, Kentucky (that's the planet of Henderson in the super cluster Kentucky -- Must you darn Terrains think that everything is about you?). Andrew the Drew was a Drew that invested his meager inheritance from his grandparents, also Drews. He wisely chose to invest his money in insurance rates. Andrew the Drew now owns the planet of Henderson.</p>
<p>To get back to the point though (yes, there is a point), insurance remains a profitable business despite the absolute hatred of the industry. Some have theorized that this is why the industry is successful. These same people are in the habit of insulting their own customers whenever possible and have yet to experience the same phenomenal success as the insurance industry.</p>
<p>Some of the more historically prosperous insurance agencies have thrived by way of name recognition. Insurance Company executives name their corporations after the sounds made by people who experience accidents, so that person will naturally think about said insurance company whenever that person requires its services. This policy has brought about the names of such well-known institutions as Mutual of Ohmygod and Blue Cross/Blue $#!?.</p>
<p>When a normal frood hears the term "insurance," one specific insurance company should come to mind, assuming the presence of a mind. That one firm is Scott's Insurance, the most successful insurance company in the entire history of the galaxy. Salesbeings that are employed by Scott's Insurance can be found in prisons spanning the cosmos.</p>
<p>The basic policy offered by Scott's Insurance, including the medical requirement to be approved by a physician. This form has been copied into the Guide below.</p>
<p>Scott's Insurance Policy<br>
(not available to any terminally ill-type folks)</p>
<p>According to this policy, anyone who signs themselves up to this policy must pay a monthly sum and in return Scott's Insurance (all right reserved) will insure your life. This means that if you die, Scott's Insurance (all rights reserved) will pay you a lump sum.</p>
<p>You must be present and sign many pieces of paper to collect the money. If you are not present to collect the money at a designated time and place, then though luck! Under said circumstances, Scott's Insurance (all rights reserved) will owe you ZIP.</p>
<p>If you haven't read this far, then you are a likely customer. Whatever dumb lump of tar (all rights reserved) decides to buy this insurance policy for themselves (probably you) must pay to us a monthly sum of whatever that person has left over from paying us the previous month.</p>
<p>Dear Doctors, please fill out the following information.</p>
<pre>
        Name of doctor (an alias will do if you're in trouble with the law)
                ______________________________
</pre>
<pre>
        Who to contact in case this doctor requires bail money
                ______________________________
</pre>
<pre>
        Name of victim/patient (all rights reserved)
                ______________________________
</pre>
<pre>
        Age of person who wants policy from Scott's Insurance (all
                rights reserved)__________________________
</pre>
<pre>
        Occupation of person in question (preferably a sex-therapist,
                never a copper)___________________________
</pre>
<pre>
        Any illness this person had (like we care)
                ______________________________
</pre>
<pre>
        Any birthmarks, deformities, or unusually large breasts
                ______________________________
</pre>
<p>We at Scott's Insurance (all rights reserved) would like to point out that this is all legal because it was originally written on a legal pad. Also Scott's Insurance (aw, you know) has included the following legal mumbo- jumbo to keep the DA off out backs.</p>
<p>The first party must kick the second party in the et cetera unless a foul is called, etc. Jive -- The flux capacitor when groovy can corrode any butimus maximus so magatmus that ofsdufois osfdjsdofjsdoijfosd with a given Fahrvergnugen. Thereby and therefore, iwxdm,vmoiwjfmsdmfwifmdmifd (all Miranda rights requested) may bneitoiamepokc fjed fejkljksdl. Froody. And may the force be with you.</p>
<p>By the way, no one who ever has, had, or ever will have a lawyer may sign this policy or it will be void and numb. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

