---
layout:article
title: Random Dot Stereo Movies
subtitle: The Noise On Your TV Isn't Noise
author: Roel van der Meulen
factuality: UnReal
pgg_id: 2U78
pgg_date: 1994/10/14
article_date: 1994/10/14
alternative_title_1: 3D Movies, How To See Them On Your Own TV
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1994-10-14 00:00
see_also: ["2R101"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>"There are more things in Heaven and Earth than are dreamt of in our philosophy." This quote from Shakespeare has found new meaning in the introduction of random dot stereo movies.</p>
<p>It has recently been discovered that the time between television broadcasts isn't filled up with noise, like everybody thought all along; it's used for broadcasts of an altogether unidentified broadcast station.</p>
<p>Owen B. Styl, the bloke who stumbled on this after looking at random dot stereograms for a whole day, was immediately after announcing what he'd found taken away in a suspicious looking van. Speculations on the identity of the occupants are still inconclusive. They may have been secret service officials or some of those dreaded "men in white," supposedly aliens. At least it is certain that they took off in an vehicle made to look like an ambulance.</p>
<p>Unfortunately, O. B. Styl didn't manage to tell more than the simple information that random dot stereo movies were transmitted. Thus we can't tell WHAT the broadcasts are and WHO made them. Even extensive attempts haven't revealed anything to this author. I would therefore like to ask the readers to take a look themselves and to report findings to me. There is a rumour that x-rated movies are involved, but alien transmissions are just as possible.</p>
<p>Remember, random dot stereograms take some time to apprehend, so expect moving pictures to take even longer. Don't let this discourage you.</p>
</div>
