---
layout:article
title: Important Tips For Youngsters
subtitle: Remember Your GPS Official Address, Or Get Used To Travelling
author: Mark A Young
factuality: UnReal
pgg_id: 2U8
pgg_date: 1992/06/07
article_date: 1992/06/07
alternative_title_1: Tips For Kids
alternative_title_2: GPS Address Standards
alternative_title_3: Galactic Postal Service Address Standards
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Sun, 1992-06-07 00:00
see_also: ["2U2"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>It is important for all little beings to know their exact address. If you were carried off by a wandering Snorshil's Beast, you would want to be able to get back home (unless you happened to BE a wandering Snorshil's Beast, in which case home would be the last place you would want to go, with Snorshil's Planet having been overrun by Knights in Shining Armor who have taken up The Quest of the Snorshil's Beast. These Knights have vowed to go to Snorshil's Planet and not to leave until they have captured a Beast. Unfortunately for them, their presence in such numbers has managed to drive every Beast from the planet. Trapped by their vows, they now mostly sit around polishing their armor and bemoaning the lack of damsels in distress, or even damsels of any sort, since all people not required to be on Snorshil's Planet have been ordered off to protect their eyes from the reflections off several thousand over-polished suits of armor.)</p>
<p>In any case, whether carried off by wandering Beasts or simply marooned by a malfunctioning teleport, you should know your correct address in -- and this is the important part -- in the official Galactic Postal Service Format. It's no use knowing your address in any other format, since the GPS will not deliver a package unless it is correctly addressed. And, of course, the most efficient way for young beings to get home is to mail themselves.</p>
<p>The official GPS address format is really not all that hard to remember: the system name and planet number go first, followed by the planet's name in parentheses, then the name of the galactic arm, the house number, street, city, political division and country.</p>
<p>For example:</p>
<blockquote>George Bush,<br>
Sol III (Earth),<br>
Orion Arm,<br>
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue,<br>
Washington, DC, USA</blockquote>
<p>(This address is actually useless, since the GPS doesn't deliver to Sol III since that planet was demolished to make way for a hyperspatial express route. The planet has since been rebuilt, but when the GPS was informed of this, their official response was: "Who cares? No one important lives there anyway.")</p>
<p>If you happen to live on a planet that has no street numbers, then just leave it off:</p>
<blockquote>Sir Beddelly Begreaves of the Brilliant Bever,<br>
Menactae IV (Snorshil's Planet),<br>
Sagittarius-Carina Arm,<br>
Road of the Glistening Gauntlets,<br>
Bilton's Manor, County Miedds, Costagol<br>
*<strong>*WEAR DARK GLASSES</strong>**</blockquote>
<p>(This address also shows the correct way to present special instructions.) Any other variations are not allowed, according to GPS official policy. If any other piece of information does not apply, it should be replaced by the word "None." Thus:</p>
<blockquote>Paul Clegg,<br>
None (None),<br>
None,<br>
None,<br>
None, None, None<br>
*<strong>*SHOOT SELF AFTER DELIVERY</strong>**</blockquote>
<p>If the young being keeps its head and remembers its address in the proper format, there is no reason it shouldn't get back home within a few standard days. If not, well, the Snorshil's Beast is actually a pretty good travelling companion -- and they do have the galaxy's best collections of cool sunglasses.</p>
</div>
