---
layout:article
title: Tripythgoras VII
subtitle: The Legend Of The Tripythgorean Bugfly
author: Gerry Canavan
factuality: UnReal
pgg_id: 2U80
pgg_date: 1995/01/29
article_date: 1995/01/29
alternative_title_1: Tripythgorean Bugfly, The
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Sun, 1995-01-29 01:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Tripythgoras VII - Around a rather large red sun in the fashionable "downtown" area of the galaxy, there lies a small planetoid called Tripythgoras VII. There were only two forms of life on Tripythgoras VII: the Tripythgorean Bugfly and its food, the Tripythgorean Prey.</p>
<p>Despite the fact that they were huge, deformed flies, the Tripythgoreans were able to build a great trading empire during the height of the old Galactic Empire. Tripythgoras VII traded novelty pencils. Its novelty pencils were renowned far and wide as the finest pencils in the known universe.</p>
<p>Then came the great economic collapse. In the harsh depression that followed, people suddenly had no use for novelty pencils. In fact, due to people's tendency to look for someone to blame whenever anything goes wrong, people began to look down on funny pencils and their creators. The people of Tripythgoras VII were scorned and ignored, and across the galaxy people burned their pencils in effigy. This dark time is, of course, where we get the now common expression, "You idiot! You're as stupid as a Tripythgorean Bugfly!"</p>
<p>Whenever anyone is considered the dumbest person in the entire known universe, one usually wishes to forget they exist. And this is exactly what the Tripythgoreans did. As a race, they forgot they existed. Or at least this is what present-day scientists believe. It is often hard to find out what someone is thinking when they will not talk to you.</p>
<p>Scientists would often visit the planetoid and interview them:</p>
<dl compact>
<dt>SCIENTIST</dt>
<dd>How are you?</dd>
<dt>BUGFLY</dt>
<dd>Are you talking to me?</dd>
<dt>SCIENTIST</dt>
<dd>Yes.</dd>
<dt>BUGFLY</dt>
<dd>Why? There's no one here.</dd>
<dt>SCIENTIST</dt>
<dd>I'm here, and you're here.</dd>
<dt>BUGFLY</dt>
<dd>Who's here?</dd>
<dt>SCIENTIST</dt>
<dd>I'm here; you're here; we're here.</dd>
<dt>BUGFLY</dt>
<dd>We're here? There's only one of you...</dd>
<dt>SCIENTIST</dt>
<dd>No, WE'RE here...oh forget it...I'm just going to go any study the Jacawanger of Felpinus Six. At least I don't have to talk to THAT freak.</dd>
</dl>
<p>And so, today, it is generally accepted that the Tripythgorean Bugfly no longer acknowledges its own existence. And its a shame, too. The galaxy could really use some good novelty pencils. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

