---
layout:article
title: Andorra, Earth
subtitle: A Party Kind Of Place
author: Chris Tann, The
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 6R20
pgg_date: 1995/02/23
article_date: 1995/02/23
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1995-02-23 01:00
see_also: ["2R37", "2R124"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Beware though, as some hitchhikers never actually manage to escape.","[2]":"Usually at ridiculously bad exchange rates.","[3]":"The exchange rates are also index linked to how much you have had to drink."}
---
<div>
<p>Andorra is a small country situated in the Pyrenees, on the border between France and Spain. Everything there is more or less duty free, including drinks in the bars, so it is an ideal stopping point for your average hitchhiker <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<pre>
Capital City:   Andorra La Vella.  This is the least interesting place in
                the whole country.
Surface area:   Pretty small, but quite pointy in places.
Population:     One million visiting tourists and about ten native Andorrans.
Major imports:  Tourists.
Major exports:  Smuggled duty free goods, drunken tourists going home.
Monetary Units: The Spanish Peseta.  Some places accept French Francs, and
                many bars will accept any form of hard currency <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>.
Languages:      Mostly Spanish, some of the natives speak French.  The
                Tourists speak whatever they want, as long as they keep
                spending money.
Entertainment:  Large amounts of partying, sometimes mixed in with small
                amounts of skiing in the winter months.
Popular foods:  Alcohol.
Getting there:  The best way is by road trip. See "Andorra Road Trip,
                The Great"
Getting away:   Sometimes more difficult than it seems.  Many
                hitchhikers have become permanently stuck in Andorra,
                because it is such a fun place!
</pre>
<h3>Useful Notes</h3>
<p>When drinking in the bars, drink spirits instead of beer. The beer is not actually expensive, but the spirits are dirt cheap, and served in huge measures as well.</p>
</div>
