---
layout:article
title: Agent Orange
subtitle: The History Of Agent Orange
author: Mike Schmitt
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 6R63
pgg_date: 1996/07/07
article_date: 1996/07/07
alternative_title_1: Orange, Pull An
alternative_title_2: Dioxin
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Sun, 1996-07-07 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {"[1]":"Okay, I trifled with it. TCDD stands for tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, though if you ever get asked that at school, sue the bastards.","[2]":"Don't ask me. As far as I know, it's not even orange.","[3]":"Yeah, it is a form of acne. Though it's much worse than conventional zits. You know, Superzits!!","[4]":"I'm also not saying I don't like those names. (This means you, Napalm Runner!!)","[5]":"You wouldn't believe the jokes I got about this for months. They weren't very a-peeling..."}
---
<div>
<p>Agent Orange is a herbicide, and a subclass of the Dioxin family. Not exactly the kind of family I'd like to come from. Its official names include TCDD (which stands for a big long boring word I won't trifle with <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>), and 2,4,5-T, and I have no idea what that means.</p>
<p>It's more commonly known under its code name, Agent Orange <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>, and was used by the U.S. military to defoliate (kill the plants) much of South Vietnam in the Vietnam War.</p>
<p>Those Pentagon monkeys were just as hasty in those days, too, and released it without too much testing. The stuff killed kazillions of animals, caused miscarriages, and severe birth defects in Vietnamese kids.</p>
<p>But that's not all! It also caused the veterans of the war to get cancer, and their children have a higher chance of genetic disorders. Unfortunately for them, scientists were/are only able to prove 'Orange causes chloracne <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>, a skin disorder.</p>
<p>Its effects on lab animals (you know, rats) are different. It's so lethal (deadly) that the "nice men in white" find it to be more toxic than, well, most people's cooking. So bad, in fact, it was banned in 1979.</p>
<p>Today? Who knows? It is rumored it's still in laundry detergent, but I don't believe it.</p>
<h3>Use as an Alias</h3>
<p>My use of it as an alias started not because I liked the sound of death and destruction <a href="#footnotes.4" class="footnote-link">[4]</a>, although most names do come from this. I wanted Agent Orange to be a man. In fact, my full alias is Agent Robert Orange, although you'll never see that information printed anywhere else.</p>
<p>It was accepted, and was used on BBS' for quite some time (and still is). However, once I was hooked up to the information superhighway, I was saddened to see at least a few others used this alias. So I shortened it (unofficially) to Orange <a href="#footnotes.5" class="footnote-link">[5]</a>.</p>
<p>The name Orange became synonymous with inane, wild ideas and web pages. My fan fiction was creatively different, and at times my wit was superb. For that reason, to "pull an orange" means to be quick with a comeback or do the wildly different.</p>
</div>
