---
layout:article
title: Easy Living, How To Survive
subtitle: How To Get More Out Of A Life Filled With Luxury
author: Roel van der Meulen
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 6R64
pgg_date: 1996/05/24
article_date: 1996/05/24
alternative_title_1: Easy Living, How To Correct The Problem Of
alternative_title_2: How To Correct The Problem Of Easy Living
alternative_title_3: What To Do If Life Becomes Too Easy For You
alternative_title_4: Luxury Problems
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1996-05-24 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>In these times of plenty (for most of those who read this) I notice that it is progressively difficult to appreciate how well off we are. In a state of pamperedness and of everything-available-at-a-snap-of-the-fingers, lack of real hardship and the rewarding relief after it ends has made us bored and spoilt. Closets overfilled with clothes, remote controls, air conditioners, snacks and soft coaches solely work to cloud our brains and turn us into whimpering whiners.</p>
<p>I have found a humble solution to this "problem" which only requires a little will-power to do. This can be difficult if you've progressed to a deep state of numbness, but the fact that it involves <em>not</em> doing things should make it easier. The solution is simply to <em>create contrasts</em>. An effective period of abstinence sweetens the comfort afterwards. Don't just abstain from consuming food, abstain from a lot more!</p>
<p>I will give some examples. There is great relief to be found resuming your normal life after a period of:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">not eating (don't over-do it!);</li>
<li value="2">eating only bread and drinking only water;</li>
<li value="3">not using the car. Cycle or walk instead;</li>
<li value="4">not seeing your loved ones (not too long, that can be fatal!)</li>
<li value="5">not taking a shower until you are sticky and smelly (careful where and when you do this; this is best combined with 4);</li>
<li value="6">not taking a leak (until you almost burst);</li>
<li value="7">skating with skates too many sizes too small (personal experience).</li>
</ol>
<p>These are just a few examples of things what you can choose <em>not</em> to do. Use a bit of creativity to add to this list and make your personal "diet".</p>
<p>Most of the above ways to abstain are found combined in outdoor camping. Here some people are capable to over-do it to such an extent that it is just not funny anymore... to their loved ones. The combined hardships, in principle, make returning home like entering paradise. The rediscovery of cooled drinks alone makes it all worth while! But there is one thing to be said against this activity: the combination of many hardships weaken the feeling of relief of the single abstinence. So much relief goes to waste this way! Advice: keep it simple, just one or two at a time.</p>
<p>Concluding: do as I do, make it slightly difficult for yourself several times per day. Wreck yourself by taking the many flights of stairs instead of using the elevator, and then feel that you are alive! <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

