---
layout:article
title: Capital Hostel, Jerusalem, Israel, Earth
subtitle: Cheap And Friendly, If A Little Loud
author: Mark Grant
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 6R66
pgg_date: 1996/02/16
article_date: 1996/02/16
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1996-02-16 01:00
see_also: ["1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>The Capital Hostel is in the heart of the tourist area of Jerusalem, near the junction of Ben Yehuda St and Jaffa St. If you like dancing it's very convenient for the Jerusalem Underground disco, which lies just below. If you don't, then the noise is bearable, though it continues past 5 am some nights. Nearby is a great bagel shop, a branch of Subway, pizza, and a wide variety of other food.</p>
<p>Prices are fairly good for the city at 30 shekels/$10 per night (as of Feb 1996) for a bed in a shared room, or 100/$33 a night for a private room. The rooms are clean and tidy, and by hostel standards it has pretty good laundry and bathroom facilities. There is also a bar and satellite TV. If you have valuables then you can store them in a safe behind the counter. Again at time of writing the staff were friendly, but obviously a lot could change in a few months with the usual turnover rate at hostels.</p>
<p>From the end of Ben Yehuda St at Zion Square, simply cross the square, and enter the small doorway in the wall. Stairs lead up to the hostel and the bar next door.</p>
<p>For Net users, the hostel is also very convenient for the Internet Cafe. Simply leave the hostel, turn right as you leave the doorway, walk past the Kent money-changing stand, and cross the road to Havazzellet St. Walk along the street until you're sure you've gone much too far, and the Cafe is on the right.</p>
</div>
