---
layout:article
title: Wheelchairs
subtitle: What Are They And What Can You Do With Them
author: Robert Garland
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 6R74
pgg_date: 1996/06/07
article_date: 1996/06/07
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1996-06-07 00:00
see_also: ["2R68", "6R75", "6R76", "6R77"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>START DISCLAIMER:<br>
The wife of the author of this entry suffers from a neurological condition called ankylosing spondilitis. While not permanently confined to a wheelchair, she occasionally has been forced to utilize one, so this author does speak from experience. This entry is not intended to insult those who are confined to wheelchairs. It is however intended to be read while eating hot pizza and a cold beer.<br>
END DISCLAIMER</p>
<p>Robert Garland has this to say about Wheelchairs:</p>
<p>"Mostly not unfun."</p>
<p>This has stumped scientists and philosophers for decades, basically due to the double negative which completely confounds them. Is it fun to be in a wheelchair or is it fun not to be in a wheelchair? That all depends upon your point of view.</p>
<p>Obviously, throughout the known galaxy there are people who will tell you that they are having loads of fun and you will observe that they are not in a wheelchair. Furthermore, you will find yourself at other times speaking with hoopy froods who are in a wheelchair, and they too will astound you with enlightening and entertaining descriptions of just how much fun they are indeed having, or have had at one time or another. And yes, at those times they were having fun, they were in fact in a wheelchair.</p>
<p>Yet, still more beings in known reality, if spoken to, will bore you with long, annoying accounts of how they really are not having any fun whatsoever, and observation will prove that these particular unfun people are certainly not residing in wheelchairs and may in fact not even have the slightest idea what a wheelchair is. Finally, there are people who for one reason or another find themselves in wheelchairs and are in fact not having any fun.</p>
<p>What does it all mean?</p>
<p>The point is, it is not the wheelchair in and of itself which provides the glee or lack thereof. It is what one does while inside said device, and the attitude one has while residing in said device, which dictates whether or not fun is in fact going to be had.</p>
<p>For example, if a person is reading this particular entry in Project Galactic Guide, and they are in a wheelchair at the time, chances are they are not having any fun. Not because the chair is uncomfortable, or because they have useless lower limbs, but because this entry in Project Galactic Guide is not a particularly interesting thing to read while sitting in a wheelchair. It ranks just below the back of a cereal box, and just above reading the actual owner's manual which comes with the wheelchair.</p>
<p>If one is going to be in a wheelchair, for one reason or another, the main point of importance which should be placed upon that individual's life from that point on is, in fact, whether or not that person is going to have any kind of fun whatsoever while in it, and how to go about doing that. There are some who find themselves in a wheelchair, and refuse to attempt to have any fun. This may be for good reason. However, it is a known fact of the universe that if the will of the universe dictates for one reason or another that you are in fact forced to remain limited to the use of a wheelchair in order to transport your body around, the will of the universe is basically telling you to slow the hell down and smell the roses. Take a daisy, as it were. God has in his, her or its infinite wisdom basically told you that marathons really aren't your style, and it is vitally important for you to spend more time experiencing life more fully utilizing your upper limbs, cranium, and torso.</p>
<p>You can choose not to take God's advice, but it really makes little difference because you are going to be unable to <em>not</em> take said advice. You might as well go about having that fun while you concentrate on the second most important point which should be placed upon the life of the individual in a wheelchair, which is eventually finding a way to get out of that wheelchair.</p>
<p>The second point should in no way ever interfere with the first point. If, by occasionally taking the time to examine the second point, you realize the first point really <em>is</em> a lot of fun, perhaps even more fun than before it became important at all to have fun while in a wheelchair, the second point becomes rather irrelevant. Full focus then applies to how to have more, and exciting, fun while <em>in</em> the wheelchair.</p>
<p>The third most important point is irrelevant in regards to the first most important point, as are all other most important points past number three. However, the third most important point is sometimes referred to as Attempting To Get Through Doorways.</p>
<p>So, to recap, the three most important points about being in a wheelchair are:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Whether Or Not Fun Is Going To Be Had, And How To Go About Doing That;</li>
<li value="2">Eventually Finding A Way To Get Out Of That Wheelchair; and</li>
<li value="3">Attempting To Get Through Doorways.</li>
</ol>
</div>
