---
layout:article
title: Wheelchairs, Getting Through Doorways In
subtitle: The Third Most Important Point About Being In A Wheelchair
author: Robert Garland
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 6R76
pgg_date: 1996/06/07
article_date: 1996/06/07
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1996-06-07 00:00
see_also: ["2R68", "6R77", "2S26", "2S34"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Despite all attempts by modern science to create a wheelchair which is not blocky, difficult to operate and manage, or uncomfortable to sit in without fluffy cushions, they have completely succeeded in making it simple to get wheelchairs through doorways - at absolutely no sufficient level whatsoever.</p>
<p>Wheelchairs are by nature designed to move forward or backward, and to spin to the left or right on its own axis. There is never a function on any electric wheelchair which says, "get through this doorway", and therefore wheelchairs appear to be very diligent in achieving to full dissatisfaction of the user not to succeed in the attempt.</p>
<p>It is particularly difficult with manually operated wheelchairs. The user must use his or her upper limbs to propel the chair forward by grabbing the rims of the two large wheels positioned below his or her arms and turn them toward the door. In order to do this the user must be prepared to get bruises and scrapes and possibly crushed knuckles as he or she realizes that the width of the doorway is equal to, or lesser than, the width of the wheelchair.</p>
<p>Sometimes this can be simplified by the use of a friend or nurse or idiot who takes the handles located at the back of the wheelchair and pushes the user of the wheelchair through the troublesome egress.</p>
<p>Sometimes this can be simplified by some stranger who wants to get through the egress but cannot, because there is a wheelchair in the way. This stranger can in a pinch act as a friend or nurse or idiot and perform the same function of pushing the user through the door. Sometimes these strangers are very polite. Sometimes you wonder if their mother loved them.</p>
<p>Sometimes no one comes along and the user is incapable, not only of getting through the doorway, but, once halfway through the doorway, of backing out again, because she/he is now jammed into the doorway and cannot break free. It is at a time like this when it is vitally important for a competent hitch-hiker to have brought with them a sandwich and a towel. The sandwich is useful to keep the user's strength up while he/she waits to be rescued. The towel makes a very good pillow when rolled up and put between the back of the head and the doorframe, for when she/he tires of keeping his/her strength up while waiting to be rescued.</p>
<p>More self-sufficient users of wheelchairs will cuss a few times, lift themselves out of the wheelchair, and throw themselves to the ground. At this point they will use one arm to steady themselves into a seal-like position, and the other hand to carefully coax the unwilling wheelchair through the doorway. The lower limbs usually decide to play a game of poker while this is happening, as they are uninterested in being reminded how annoyingly useless they have become for their owner, and have long since gotten over feeling guilty about it.</p>
<p>Once successfully free of the doorway, the user now confronts a completely new dilemma: getting back into the wheelchair. The solution lies in applying the brake switches to the wheels, but many have forgotten to perform this action, all to very unhealthy results.</p>
</div>
