---
layout:article
title: Cirque Du Soleil
subtitle: Circus, The Next Generation
author: Roel van der Meulen
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 6R79
pgg_date: 1996/06/05
article_date: 1996/06/05
alternative_title_1: Soleil, Cirque Du
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Wed, 1996-06-05 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {"[1]":"It is definitely worth a day's travel.","[2]":"like acrobatics, juggling, etc., but without the animals","[3]":"I haven't seen a red nose anywhere.","[4]":"Don't try to understand the lyrics: you won't succeed."}
---
<div>
<p>One thing a hitchhiker just <em>has</em> to see when the tour brings it around to his/her vicinity <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> is the Cirque du Soleil. This is something you are sure to have never seen before elsewhere. After the show you always hear the crowd whisper in awe: "<em>unbelievable</em>!"</p>
<p>Well, what is this Cirque du Soleil (Circus of the Sun) then? Is it comparable to the conventional circus you went to with your parents when you were six, with an arena of sand, trained animals and their odour, glittery suits abound, and clowns with red noses? Only slightly. Before I explain, first a little history. Back in 1984, in Quebec, Canada, a bunch of street artists decided to get together and have a festival. This turned out to be so successful that they decided to stay together under one big top. Because their circus didn't have any roots, they decided to think them up themselves. They consequently succeeded in reinventing the circus. The artists, the "building blocks" of it all, are dedicated to breaking down old ideas and preconceptions and creating an extraterrestrial world (and they succeed!) This circus of the future eventually became a combination of street performance and theater, with homages to more conventional circus.</p>
<p>The show I went to, Saltimbanco, showed me that Cirque du Soleil offers a fusion of traditional circus acts <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> with a light show, original rock music, singing, dancing, and acting. Every act is performed by some of the in-house troupe of surrealistically dressed "circus creatures" in a specially designed set. Several other members of the troupe, which effectively is the heart of the show, hang around during the acts to take care of the requisites. At the same time they amuse the audience by dancing, acting, and general clowning around (although not in the traditional sense <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>). Meanwhile, a good beat or a sensitive song <a href="#footnotes.4" class="footnote-link">[4]</a> is played, and multiple coloured lights are directed towards the scene. The acts themselves, involving for instance tight rope walkers, jugglers, snake people, strong men, and aerial artists, have been perfected and have been given a new dimension in such a way that your jaw actually drops. There is also a very special audience participation, that I won't reveal just now: it is something to experience. There was a remarkable intimacy between the performers and the audience.</p>
<p>To catch the feeling of the show I visited, it reminded me in some aspects of the grand opening of the Winter Olympics in France a few years ago. Alien circus acts as described in SF novels also have a similar atmosphere to them.</p>
<p>Cirque du Soleil at first glance doesn't seem to be cheap, but after having been there you will agree with me that it was well worth it. Remember, though, to order your tickets well in advance, because the show is absolutely sure to sell out. It is truly the next generation of circus.</p>
<pre>
If you want to read more about them, the circus has its own web site at
<a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130117015357/http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/">http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/</a>.  Currently they are touring the world with
different shows:  Quidam (North America, 1996-1998)
                  Alegria (Asia 1996)
                  Saltimbanco (Europe, 1996)
Mystere is the show stationed in Las Vegas, USA, where another show will
also find its home.  Berlin will in several years also have a residence of
Cirque du Soleil.
</pre>
</div>
