---
layout:article
title: Leap Years
subtitle: Why?
author: Aaron Rice
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 6R87
pgg_date: 1997/02/03
article_date: 1997/02/03
alternative_title_1: Years, Leap
alternative_title_2: Extra Day In The Year, The
alternative_title_3: February 29
alternative_title_4: 29th February
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Mon, 1997-02-03 01:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {"[1]":"Think back; it wasn't that long ago.","[2]":"Of course, this hardly seems to make a lot of difference to anybody alive at this moment, as most of them stand little or no chance of ever seeing the year 2100."}
---
<div>
<p>Leap years are a pain. Every so often they come along and dump an extra day on the end of February; a month so many people wish to progress out of post-haste. As if February wasn't already unique enough, having only twenty-eight days under normal circumstances. This is especially bad for people who are awaiting events in March, though in later months, people will have already adjusted to the change.</p>
<p>And what about those who are born on the 29th February? Do they have to wait four years for their next birthday? I don't believe I have never met anyone born on this day, but if one of those people is reading this article, I would very much like to hear from them!</p>
<p>In fact, the idea of having "leap years" was thought up to offset the difference between the normal calendar year of 365 days, and the solar year, which is roughly a quarter of a day longer.</p>
<p>If the current, or any other, year is a leap year, it must be divisible by four, but not by one hundred. The exceptions to this are those years that are divisible by four hundred. This means:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">1996 was a leap year <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>;</li>
<li value="2">1997 is most definitely not a leap year;</li>
<li value="3">1998 will <em>not</em> be a leap year;</li>
<li value="4">2000 will be a leap year; and</li>
<li value="5">2100 will <em>not</em> be a leap year <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>.</li>
</ol>
<p>This author wishes he could write this article on the 29th February, but he cannot be bothered to wait until the year 2000.</p>
</div>
