---
layout:article
title: Creating A Religion, The Art Of
subtitle: Cheese Gods
author: Matt Baier
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 6R90
pgg_date: 1998/09/05
article_date: 1998/09/05
alternative_title_1: Religion, The Art Of Creating A
alternative_title_2: Art Of Creating A Religion, The
alternative_title_3: Guddha, God Of Cheese And Prophet Of Teh Geat Gpd Tpyo
alternative_title_4: Gods, Cheese
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Sat, 1998-09-05 00:00
see_also: ["2R10", "2U76", "2U45", "2U19"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"So is subtracting 32 and multiplying by 5/9, but that's a completely different sort of thing."}
---
<div>
<p>The world is full of religions. They all say something different, even the nine hundred fifty-one different denominations of the Christian church (denominations having been formed by a difference of opinion concerning drinking vessels). As a result, some are going to be false. Most state that those who don't believe what they have to say will end up doing something unpleasant for all eternity, and since there's no real proof that any religion is true or not, scaring people is an effective method of conversion <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>Since no religion can be proven, and people are gullible, it becomes easy to start one for your very own. This is fairly easy to do, provided you have some writing skill, a lot of charisma, and the ability to look straight into the eyes of people and lie through your teeth.</p>
<p>One of the more important things required is some sort of religious writing. This should be very long and start with a creation theory. After a while, a moral code should be set down. It should also be long, and dull enough that only a zealot would bother reading through it. After that, some stories about how people who followed your moral code were blessed and people who didn't died horribly.</p>
<p>You also need a main religious character. He can be a physical manifestation of your god, or a prophet, or maybe just some guy who sat on a rock and didn't use proper grammar. He should also be completely separate from you, the founder of the religion. You have to make this character seem inhumanly wise, or do something to make him the best at something and worth worshipping, if you want anyone else to join in the religion with you.</p>
<p>So let's say your religion's based on Guddha. Write a long book about the life of Guddha, and fill it with cheese references. Make your disciples sacrifice expensive cheese two times a year. The full name of Guddha ends up as `Guddha, God of Cheese and Propht of teh Geat Gpd Tpyo'. You end up as Guddha's prophet, high priest, and treasurer. To lure people into your place of worship, offer samples of cheeses on streetcorners and hand out pamphlets promising `Peace and Promiscuity'. After you get a reasonably large base of followers, you should move to Montana and begin stockpiling automatic weapons to prepare for the end of the world. Announce that you have achieved enlightenment, appoint a new high priest, and wander out, ostensibly to `think about things'. Then take the money and run.</p>
</div>
