---
layout:article
title: Blue Christmas
subtitle: It Is The Season To Be Worried
author: Aaron Rice
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 6R92
pgg_date: 1997/12/25
article_date: 1997/12/25
alternative_title_1: Christmas, Blue
alternative_title_2: Misery At Christmas
alternative_title_3: Anger At Christmas
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1997-12-25 01:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {"[1]":"This is debatable. See any article about people for details.","[2]":"Or even a tank top, which might reduce your colleagues to fits of laughter."}
---
<div>
<p>Christmas: the time of year where people shall come together in celebration and happiness. This is, alas, fiction. If it were ever true, it has been consigned to the chronicles of history. Unfortunately the festive season, with its new market-orientated mentality, has turned normally sane <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> people into animals.</p>
<p>During the course of every day life, you can define a breaking point - that is, a point before where everything is, to all intents and purposes, fine and dandy, and after which, to the exclusion of all else, is hell. It has been observed that this point is significantly lowered in the average human being, during this period of the year.</p>
<p>Whereas, once, you might find someone with a happy smile, holding open the door to you, you are now more likely to find some mean expression bidding farewell to a door, which is in turn bidding welcome to the bridge of your nose in quite spectacular fashion. It is because of this that Christmas is now known to some as a painful time.</p>
<p>It is perhaps because of the increased stress of life in general, combined with the added stress of the number of other equally stressed people rushing around doing what they have to do, in turn combined with the fact that there just aren't enough hours in the day anyway, and why can't everyone else realise that. Except they do, and wonder why you don't. Except you do, and so on...</p>
<p>The best advice, if you want to avoid the wrath of others for no apparent reason, is to hide in a box, under a table, or stay locked away in a room somewhere, for the month of December. Alternatively, you might seek to strive for a better society by coaxing people into a nicer merrier way of life. It is probably a good idea, if you chose the latter, to wear protective clothing and/or a tank <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>.</p>
</div>
