---
layout:article
title: Greek Cruises
subtitle: Why They Can Be Holidays From Hell
author: Dan Shlepakov
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 6R97
pgg_date: 
article_date:  
alternative_title_1: Cruises In Greece, Earth
alternative_title_2: Island Cruises, Greece, Earth
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 2010-10-21 16:00
see_also: ["1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Greece is a wonderful land. It really is. All exotic and hot and different from other places. Maybe this is one of the reasons that many people decide to take a cruise in the Mediterranian sea and see 'The Wonders of Greece' from the board of a giant ship. Well, here is fair advice: DON'T.</p>
<p>After you get on the ship, and all your happy relatives on the shore have waved goodbye to you, you finally realize that you are trapped. After dealing with the baggage (10 minutes) and examining your room (or cell, as you will think of it -- 5 minutes), you can then take a stroll and examine the ship itself (1 more hour). And if you have a partner, you can even do some "blood cleaning" (2 hours). <em>Then</em> you realize that you have another five and a half days to go crazy.</p>
<p>Seeing the islands of Greece is supposed to be the good part of the cruise, but it turns out to be a "hit and run" mission. After you reach one of the islands, the guide gives you half an hour to see the place, which is not even enough to find a decent site for picture taking. After two or three such "visits", you start to experience this unpleasant feeling down your stomach, and you realize that the only experience you will remember after this cruise will be a grinning Greek salesman offering you a bowl of peanuts that costs more then a ticket to Japan.</p>
<p>But at least you will do something in those "happy" half hours that you will have here and there. Because life on board sometimes will lower you to the mental state of a dead starfish.</p>
<p>The other people on board make it even worse.</p>
<p>The Americans are to be avoided (no harm meant; there are some who are really annoying). If a middle-aged bald fat male decides to join you on your strolls, meals, and God save, sometimes even the pool, your vacation is dead for sure. In the first 5 minutes of conversation you will get a full description of his sexual life, his dreams and his health problems. He may be as intelligent as you could wish, but after some 20 minutes of his company you will feel really sorry you are not on "Titanic" in its last few moments.</p>
<p>If we are talking about meals, the experience of 20 fat bald males with their ever more "enjoyable" wives jumping out of the pool, stopping any conversation they had when the "dinner is served" gong is heard, can really make you regret the day you were born.</p>
<p>Wonderful land, Greece, truly wonderful. Just be careful with the cruise, REALLY careful...</p>
</div>
