---
layout:article
title: Lincoln, Nebraska, USA, Earth
subtitle: A Place To Hoop The Place Down
author: Mark Petro
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 6S17
pgg_date: 1998/05/28
article_date: 1998/05/28
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1998-05-28 00:00
see_also: ["2R89", "6U17"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Where to land: Corn fields are the best places, as there are so many around and they provide ample space. The imprint of your ship on the corn provides a valuable souvenir of your visit for the locals. If for some reason all corn fields are occupied, hover over the Hyde Observatory and jump onto it. This makes the star gazers very happy.</p>
<p>Where to go and have fun: Though a fly over may make the place seem a little unhoopy, Lincoln is actualy a very hoopy place to be. It has many activity centers including a laser tag arena called Laser Quest. This costs six Terran American dollars for admission. You then put on a vest and carry a laser gun and shoot people with it. WARNING!! If you chose to use your own kill-o-zap blaster, set it very low or you might get arrested and deported to another Terran country!</p>
<p>Where to work: A pizza place called Papa Johns is a very good place to start and if you have to green antenna growing out of your head that would explain a lot to the locals. Otherwise any fast food restaurant.</p>
<p>Where to stay: For luxury I would stay at the Cornhusker hotel, but if you're low on money any other good hotel, motel or pickup truck will do.</p>
<p>What not to do: The number one rule on going to Lincoln (I would pay attention if you don't want to lose your head or any other vital part of your body) is <em>never</em> say "the Cornhuskers stink" or anything to that effect.</p>
</div>
