---
layout:article
title: Carpets
subtitle: A Mostly Unhappy Species
author: Roel van der Meulen
factuality: UnReal
pgg_id: 6U6
pgg_date: 1995/03/17
article_date: 1995/03/17
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1995-03-17 01:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {"[1]":"But they of course don't have the mob after them!","[2]":"In the same way that the body is one large digestive organ, feeding on dust."}
---
<div>
<p>Some millions of years ago a couple of possums decided to play a trick on evolution and to quite deliberately change their form to something hardly recognisable as animal. They started to perfect their ability to "play the possum" in able to never to be bothered by anyone again. They failed miserably.</p>
<p>It is widely known that the rodent called the possum, when finding itself in extreme danger, pretends it's dead. This way it expects the attacking (or just mildly curious) creature to loose interest and eventually go away. A similar strategy can often be seen in all kinds of movies about wars and criminals, but there it hardly ever works, because the attackers are always smart or perverse enough to empty their complete ammo-clip in the supposedly dead corpse. Possums, however, seem to get away with it <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> The possums I refer to were so lazy that they wanted to use this ability for a larger range of occasions, more accurately, for <strong>every</strong> occasion. Over the years they found a way to lie down on the ground more often, lying still, until they hardly ever moved at all. Due to gravity they became flatter. They became furrier and started to loose all features that could identify them as animals, such as their head, tail, pouch, and feet. Their need to breathe and feed was brought down to an absolute minimum.</p>
<p>Today these creatures have found a home in the same home we occupy. Yet we never recognize them for the animals they are. Very inconspicuously they lie on our floors. In fact, we bring them into our homes ourselves! Unfortunately the animals can't defend themselves against that, and spend their whole life trying to avoid the consequences.</p>
<p>Because we don't know they are alive, we tread on them all of the time. We actually like to do that, because they're all warm and soft. The possums, however, hate it. Imagine being stomped and trampled on all day long. This is even worse in households with lots of children running around all day, or fat people, or both. For this reason the animals try to crawl to the sides of the room. They have found a way to crawl using their whole body, in a similar way as snakes do, except they don't bend sideways but upward. They never get far. The humans occupying the house soon find out that they have moved by tripping over the folds they make in themselves, or by just noticing that they have quite inexplicably made a slight turn.</p>
<p>Another reason for them to move should become quite clear when you've got two of them in one room. Due to a strange twist of probabilities, <strong>if</strong> there are two in one room, they are always of different sex. As it seems that most people choose to be blind and not (want to) notice, I will explain. Reproduction of these possums would have become very difficult, were it not that they found a very easy and pleasurable solution. They changed their body into one large reproductive organ <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>. To mate they merely have to touch each other. Therefore, if you've got two of them in one room, you will quickly notice that they have moved closer to each other, although you can't see the movement itself. If you let them go, they soon lie partly on each other. Realize what they're doing, and please don't spoil their fun!</p>
<p>Now you understand why it is doubly so painful if you tread on them. This knowledge will also, I expect, give you a different perspective to the activity of vacuuming them. Although you take away much of their food, you also give it a feeling, let's say, much more pleasureful than a massage :).</p>
<p>The next step in the reproduction is the actual birth. It takes place almost immediately after conception. The child, just like the adult, is not recognisable as an animal, and looks completely like something else. By absence of a pouch on the parents, the children crawl around until they finally find a very suitable pouch on our body. When we discover the children we call them belly button lint. Most people out of ignorance throw them away, but some people have a heart and let it grow, until it finally turns into a full grown parent, so that the owners have a new pet. These people are the same people who never vacuum their possum, the catholic fundamentalists of the possum world, we could say. In the third world there are large factories where people get paid (although not much) to nurture these possum children in their navels. The children turn into adults and are then sold to be pets in homes all over the world.</p>
<p>I own two pets and I occasionally give them a nice rub down. They aren't allowed to climb up the walls, or on to each other too much, and I'm afraid I throw away the children, although I give them plenty of opportunity to grow in the distant corners of my room.</p>
</div>
