---
layout:article
title: University Of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA, Earth
subtitle: Partying And Studying Jefferson Style
author: Evan "Paradox !-)" Macbeth
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 7R6
pgg_date: 1995/10/05
article_date: 1995/10/05
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1995-10-05 00:00
see_also: ["2R63", "2R22", "2R82", "2R66", "2R36", "2R25"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>The University of Virginia is a State-supported University in the state of Virginia (imagine that!). It was founded in 1819 by Thomas Jefferson, who counted it among his greatest achievements. It opened its doors to its first class of students in 1825. Today it ranks among the best public Universities in the United States.</p>
<h3>Geography</h3>
<p>The University is located in Charlottesville, Virginia, in the Northwestern portion of that state. Charlottesville is located in a valley, with mountains surrounding so the University is known in many circles for its scenic views. Charlottesville has an airport, with flights to various US urban centers. There is also (most likely more useful for Hitchhikers) a train station which is just east of the University proper. The main route into Charlottesville by car is Route 29. AVOID THIS. It is a nightmare of construction, ill conceived and terribly congested (I come from New Jersey - I know traffic when I see it). If you must come into Charlottesville by car, have patience with the drivers, they are just getting used to the concept of traffic. The main benefit of traveling to Charlottesville by car is the fact that Rt. 29 directly bisects the University, making UVa easy to find (not that it is hard to find). UVa is the reason Charlottesville exists.</p>
<p>As for the University itself, the center of UVa's life is an area directly surrounding the Lawn and Range called Central Grounds. The Lawn, a.k.a. Mr. Jefferson's Academic Village, is the heart of UVa. The Rotunda, a scale replica of the Roman Pantheon, sits at the top of the Lawn, while rows of student rooms and professors' residences (called Pavilions) proceed down the Lawn. The Lawn is a beautiful sight on a good day. During a visit to UVa in 1993, Mikhail Gorbachev stated, "You people live in paradise," at the sight of the Lawn in the summer. The Range is a series of rooms and buildings (called Hotels) outside the Lawn which house Graduate students. The Lawn has many rooms which house 4th and 5th year students who have contributed to the University. Living on the Lawn is considered a high honor at UVa, even though the Lawn rooms have no inside sanitary plumbing. (What do you want, they were initially constructed in 1824!)</p>
<p>Surrounding Central Grounds are various academic buildings, libraries, and the student center, Newcomb Hall. Most of the residence areas at the University are southwest of Central Grounds, beyond these buildings. Most of the good bars are east of Central Grounds, on the Corner. Most of the parties are north of Central Grounds, along the Fraternity row known as Rugby Road.</p>
<p>You can get a map of UVa for reference at Miller Hall, (the admissions office) west of the Range on McCormick Road.</p>
<h3>Tradition</h3>
<p>Before going on, a mention MUST be made about tradition at the University of Virginia. Tradition is one of the THE defining characteristics of UVa. Students, faculty and administrators alike take it very seriously. The beginning of an understanding of UVa tradition is language. People at UVa speak their own language. For example, a UVa person would say:</p>
<blockquote>Grounds, not Campus<br>
Mr. Jefferson, not TJ or Tom<br>
Fraternities, not Frats<br>
First-years, not Freshmen (and it's been that way since 1825) Professors are "Mister" Smith not "Doctor" Smith<br>
The University not The U<br>
UVa. not U.Va.</blockquote>
<p>Yes, it is somewhat pedantic and elitist, but it is taken very seriously. Professors have been known to get angry if called "Doctor". Thomas Jefferson is spoken of with reverent familiarity, as if he had only just gone off to Mount Vernon for a talk with George Washington and will return to the University shortly.</p>
<p>One of the keys of this tradition is the University's Honor System. The system is entirely student run and has only one sanction. If a person is convicted of an honor offense, that student is asked to leave the University. The Honor System was spawned after a student shot a professor in the mid-1800s.</p>
<h3>Enjoyment</h3>
<p>The students at UVa are known as Wahoos. A Wahoo is a fish that can drink twice its weight. This description is rather fitting for the heavy-partying student body at UVa. On any given Friday or Saturday night one can walk up Rugby Road and into any number of Fraternity parties. These Fraternities are required to have a guest list, but this is easy for Hitchhiker's to subvert if they are aware of UVa tradition. Thomas Jefferson, Satan and God are on most every fraternity guest list. Simply name yourself one of these three immortals, and you will gain entry and alcohol.</p>
<p>For weeknights, partying usually does not take place on Rugby as much as on other roads and residences around UVa. You might take a walk down Jefferson Park Avenue South of Central Grounds and listen for music.</p>
<p>For bars, the Corner is the best place to go. The Corner is a collection of shops, restaurants and bars down University Avenue, east of the Rotunda. One of the best bars is hidden behind the Corner itself, up 14th Street on Wertland Street. This bar is St. Maartens. There are two types of hotwings there that are not on the menu. For those with asbestos mouths, request the "Death Wings" or the "Seventh Level of Hell" wings. On the Corner itself there is a restaurant called Macados (MAC-a-doos) which makes good sandwiches, and is home to drinks called the "Gorilla Fart" (useful when Ipecac Syrup is not available), and the Baltimore Zoo (a.k.a. a whole BUNCH of alcohol!).</p>
<h3>Things To See At UVa</h3>
<p>If weather permits, lay down on your back at the top of the Rotunda steps, and hang your head down to the step below you. Look out at the Lawn upside down. It's quite an interesting site and a lot of fun if you've got a good buzz going, or even if you don't. If you are still coherent enough to make out images at 1am, you might try sitting on the Lawn for a while to watch for streakers. Streaking the Lawn is another old UVa tradition. After watching for streakers for a while you might want to walk off some of your drink. Take a nice LONG walk down McCormick Road to Hereford College (a UVa. Residential College on top of Observatory Hill) and watch the sun rise.</p>
<p>Alternatively, take one of the many tours offered by the University Guides. The Guides are all UVa students who volunteer to give tourists tours of the Grounds. Perhaps you might like to drop by Edgar Allen Poe's old room on the Range. He was a student here for a semester. Saturdays during the fall you can attend a UVa football game and watch the Cavaliers in action, watched by students dressed in their Sunday best, drinking Bourbon and Coke (another tradition). Don't miss the humourous antics of the Virginia Pep Band at half-time!</p>
<h3>Advice For Hitchhikers</h3>
<p>It is very easy to lose track of one's purpose in the face of the parties at UVa. Make sure to have people watch out for you - Charlottesville is a city, and crime is a problem. Wahoos in general are friendly folks, they will take care of you if you ask nicely (or at least stuff you inside somewhere relatively safe to sleep off anything you need to sleep off). As for a place to stay, Housing at UVa is overcrowded, so knowing someone is the best way to go. If you have access to funds you might stay at one of the many hotels in Charlottesville. The Best Western Cavalier Inn is within walking distance from Central Grounds.</p>
<p>Avoid the dining halls if possible, a company called ARAMARK is contracted to serve food in these places. The term food is interpreted VERY loosely. Your most stable bet for food is going to be the McDonald's in the Barracks Road Shopping Center. Most of the restaurants on the Corner have good food as well.</p>
<p>In the final analysis UVa is a very fun place to be. The music scene is excellent (the Dave Matthew's Band got their start here), the parties are loud and fun, the students are engaging (as a general rule), and the environment is beautiful. I highly recommend a visit for any Hitchhiker.</p>
<p>Field Researcher's Note: This article is IMHO and not a definitive guide to UVa.</p>
</div>
