---
layout:article
title: Walking Out Of Comic Shops In Kreuzberg, Berlin, Germany, Earth
subtitle: Be Careful, We Warned You
author: Karli Dietrich, Michael Bleyer
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R16
pgg_date: 1995/12/20
article_date: 1995/12/20
alternative_title_1: Comic Shops
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Wed, 1995-12-20 01:00
see_also: ["1R1", "2R6", "2S23"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Comic shops are a world of their own. Comic shops in Kreuzberg doubly so. If you spend a decent amount of time in them, indulging in fantastic stories and exposing yourself to the incredible loud and nasty noise pumping out of their sound system (like "Nine Inch Nails", "Smashing Pumpkins", "Rage Against The Machine" etc.), your mind will warp into this artificial reality the way it happens to "The Maxx" on MTV's Oddities. While this is fine as long as you stay in the warm and protective environment of the comic shop, it can really cause you trouble when stepping back out into the real world, because you may not be ready to face it yet.</p>
<p>Potential dangers when leaving the shop:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Too much cold fresh air, resulting in oxygen overdose and neural shock.</li>
<li value="2">Dog shit on the sidewalk.</li>
<li value="3">A kamikaze bike courier decides to take a shortcut - <strong>through you</strong>.</li>
<li value="4">Elderly women in fur coats vomiting onto the sidewalk right in front of you.</li>
<li value="5">Being cut by a double-decker bus: Berlin bus drivers have this digital driving method: full throttle or screaming breaks.</li>
<li value="6">The most wicked danger is the fact that Kreuzberg is an unusual place itself, so you may not notice that you stepped back into the real world until it's too late.</li>
</ol>
<p>How to avoid these dangers:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Take along someone who doesn't fancy comics, and thus is unaffected by the shop's magic to lead you out safely. His/her constant complaining ("are we going to leave now?") may spoil all your fun though. Even better: make an appointment with such a person in 3 hours (like: "can you pick me up and get me out of there safely?").</li>
<li value="2">Buy a "Star Trek" shirt and a Phaser imitation. When leaving, wear the shirt and wildly shoot your Phaser around. Shout: "Mr. Worf, engage!". This will keep problems 3-6 away from you or have them keep a respectable distance (may only work with at least an officers rank shirt though).</li>
<li value="3">Pull your t-shirt over your head and start acting like Cornholio when walking out ("I am Cornholio! Are you threatening me?"). As above, it works only with problems 3-6. Read "Beavis &amp; Butt-Head" comics, eat some candy bars and drink espresso to give your performance the genuine touch.</li>
<li value="4">Don't leave the shop at all. Ask the clerk for a job.</li>
</ol>
</div>
