---
layout:article
title: Printer Ink Cartridge Refills
subtitle: Costly And Time-Consuming
author: Aaron Rice
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R21
pgg_date: 1996/03/13
article_date: 1996/03/13
alternative_title_1: Refilling Ink Cartridges In Printers
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Wed, 1996-03-13 01:00
see_also: ["2S45", "2R27", "2U63"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Anybody in possession of an inkjet printer has, or will inevitably at one time or another, run out of ink. The symptoms of this are that your documents will gradually fade as they print, perhaps to the point of being totally invisible to all but those with amazingly developed imaginations.</p>
<p>At this point you will be faced with a decision: to buy a new cartridge, or to "save" money by purchasing a refill kit to refill the cartridge you have with more ink.</p>
<p>To explain the situation: you can purchase two refills for just under the price of one cartridge, one refill being theoretically sufficient to fill one cartridge. The idea here is that you are getting the equivalent of two cartridges for less than the price of one.</p>
<p>This couldn't be more wrong, as, of course, cartridge manufacturing companies have cottoned on to this idea of saving money with refills. They create their cartridges in such a way as to prevent any refill from working, at least until you've used the equivalent money's-worth of ink in trying. By the time your cartridge actually starts to excrete ink onto your page as intended, you have already used both refills, even having gone to the point of watering down the second one! Their theory is of course that, when you need more ink yet again, you will not even think about buying anything other than a brand new cartridge.</p>
<p>As a result of this, lots of ink cartridge manufacturers have of course become immensely rich, and lots of ordinary printer-owning people have gone insane. Bah!</p>
</div>
