---
layout:article
title: Stirling, Stirlingshire, Scotland, UK, Earth
subtitle: Mostly Dull
author: Kevin O'Rourke
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R22
pgg_date: 1996/02/23
article_date: 1996/02/23
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1996-02-23 01:00
see_also: ["1R1", "2R37"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Stirling is a smallish town in Scotland's central belt, roughly midway between the sprawling, belligerent metropolis of Glasgow and the tidy, polite conurbation that is Edinburgh.</p>
<p>Like many other Scottish towns and cities, it grew up around a castle built on a big volcanic rock; it is most fortunate that there are a lot of these around in Scotland.</p>
<p>First impressions vary depending on your chosen method of arrival:</p>
<pre>
By train: "Hmm, ex-industrial sites and hideous new housing developments,
           how charming.... What's that hideous thing?!?"  (See the Thistle
           Centre below.)
</pre>
<pre>
By car:   "What lovely countryside..... Hmm, a large roundabout....
           Eeeurgh, a grotty council housing estate!"
</pre>
<pre>
By plane:  As there is no airport in Stirling, any person arriving by plane
           would probably be more concerned with the way the picturesque
           countryside was rushing toward them than appreciating its beauty.
</pre>
<h3>What's in Stirling?</h3>
<p>Stirling was relatively (un)fortunate compared with other towns nearby in that it had no major industry, only some coal mining and small textile mills. Its main industry is currently tourism (see below for more information).</p>
<p>Most of the town itself is made up of attractive old buildings, but lurking behind them is one of the worst examples of late '70s shopping centres in Britain, the Thistle Centre. This monstrosity is best seen from behind (for example, from the railway station) where its majestic architecture is not hidden. It's not pretty and the inside is worse.</p>
<p>Another major feature of the town is its university, which is not actually in Stirling. The university was created in the '70s, but remarkably fits into its surroundings quite well. Unfortunately it seems to be populated largely by arrogant and ignorant people from the south of England.</p>
<p>The major areas of town include:</p>
<p>King's Park, an area of large, old houses surrounding a park, built to house the wealthier residents who had decided the town was too smelly, dirty and full of undesirable people.</p>
<p>Raploch, formerly a large stagnant pond, which was drained and had council housing built on it. This is generally regarded as having been a bad move and was a further attempt to separate the wealthy residents from the less wealthy by putting all the undesirables in one place. DO NOT ENTER! It's not nice and you may not come out again.</p>
<p>Top of the Town, where everyone originally lived before they realised that living near the castle was no longer required. Now consists mostly of tourist shops.</p>
<p>Bridge of Allan, ex spa town, now the home of the university. Unlike most places near universities, it refuses to become even slightly studentish, remaining generally genteel and Victorian.</p>
<h3>Inhabitants</h3>
<p>The first warning for any visitor is that the people of Stirling are <strong>very</strong> sarcastic. Sarcasm is in fact a kind of local competitive sport. This often causes problems for tourists from countries where such things as irony and sarcasm are seldom used. In particular the local bus companies appear to recruit drivers purely on the basis of how unhelpful and sarcastic they can be if asked a question.</p>
<p>The second warning is to avoid students. Nasty things often happen to them and those near them.</p>
<h3>Tourism</h3>
<p>Stirling has a long and rather bloody history, several major battles between the Scots and the English happened nearby (Stirling Bridge, Bannockburn, Sherriffmuir and others), leaving lots of remarkably small battlefields with visitor centres where you can buy fudge and tacky tourist gifts.</p>
<p>The main attraction in the town itself is the castle. It is very old; Mary Queen of Scots stayed there for a while, and if you can prove you're a local you can get in free. Just outside town is the (National) Wallace Monument, a big tower built to commemorate William Wallace (a major Scottish freedom fighter). Although climbing the hundreds of steps in the tower is in itself a major feat of endurance it is nothing compared to the task of walking up the hill to the foot of the monument.</p>
<p>The area to the Northwest (known as the Trossachs, for no adequately explained reason) is also very popular with tourists. It is quite scenic if you like lakes and mountains, but it does get very boring after a while. DO NOT go into any tea rooms or tourist shops, they all sell the same rubbish and if you've got one Trossachs tea towel, you've seen them all.</p>
<h3>Drinking</h3>
<p>Consumption of alcoholic beverages is very popular among the inhabitants due to the almost complete lack of anything else to do. There are a number of pubs in town, most of which are to be avoided, and two nightclubs. Here is a guide to some of them:</p>
<pre>
Pubs:     Cafe Saloon - AVOID, ex student bar, now largely deserted.
          Whistlebinkies - Awful beer but a nice atmosphere and a garden out
                           the back.
          O'Neil's - Another mock-Irish pub, not bad but often very busy.
          Behind the Wall - Varies, sometimes dead quiet, sometimes not.
</pre>
<pre>
Clubs:    The Fubar - Not nice, lots of people from the Raploch (see above)
                      frequent this one.
          Rainbow Rocks - Fairly dire but it's the best in town.
</pre>
<p>It is important that you do not get drunk enough to do anything illegal, as the town has a closed circuit surveillance camera system and you will probably be seized by the local police.</p>
<h3>Money</h3>
<p>UK pounds are used throughout Scotland. IMPORTANT NOTE: If you get handed a "Bank of Scotland", "Royal Bank of Scotland" or "Clydesdale Bank" note in your change, don't worry, these are perfectly legal, although not readily accepted in England.</p>
<h3>Required Equipment</h3>
<blockquote>1 Waterproof clothing (it rains a lot.)<br>
2 More waterproof clothing (I warned you.)<br>
3 Insect repellent (local midges are really evil.)<br>
4 Board games etc. (if you're stuck there on a Sunday.)</blockquote>
<h3>Things To Try</h3>
<pre>
          1 Finding something worthwhile to do on a Sunday.
          2 Going to till 1 at the local Tesco supermarket on a Saturday and
            saying "hi" to the author of this article (unless I've got the
            day off).
</pre>
<p>Thanks for reading this. If you still want to visit, have a look at Stirling University's web site at <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130205231243/http://www.stir.ac.uk/">http://www.stir.ac.uk/</a>, it should bring you to your senses.</p>
</div>
