---
layout:article
title: Uuencoding, A Rather Boring Article On
subtitle: Why 8 Into 7 Won't Go
author: Alexander Lachlan McLintock
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R34
pgg_date: 1995/06/09
article_date: 1995/06/09
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1995-06-09 00:00
see_also: ["2R127", "1R22", "1R23", "2R57"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"I don't believe that the rumoured a-to-b-via-c program actually exists."}
---
<div>
<p>When people first invented e-mail they thought that no one would need more than the 128 characters which make up the ASCII character set. (The 128 comes from 2 to the power of 7 -- hence the phrase 7 bit ASCII). Unfortunately, a binary character (needed for executable programs, word processor documents, pictures and the like) uses the full 8 bits, and unsurprisingly if you try and send 8 bits down a communication medium which only safely supports 7 then sometimes the eighth bit gets lost.</p>
<p>The solution is to translate your eight bit data (eg. a Word6 DOC file) into characters which only use 7 bits. You then can send the encoded file across the world wide e-mail network and translate the 7 bit file back into an 8 bit file at the other end.</p>
<p>Well, how do we do that? There are two main ways. The first one I will mention is the imaginatively named a-to-b. This was originally an Apple Macintosh program which (together with its sister program b-to-a) <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> few people use outside the Apple community. The more common method is uuencoding. Uuencoding (pronounced you-you-encoding) actually stands for Unix to Unix encoding, but you don't have to have Unix to use this.</p>
<p>You usually do something like:</p>
<blockquote>uuencode binaryfilename newfilename &gt; saveasfilename</blockquote>
<p>Under DOS I might type:</p>
<blockquote>uuen alexpic.gif alexpic.gif &gt; alexpic.uue</blockquote>
<p>after which I get a new file called alexpic.uue which contains:</p>
<p>begin 644 alexpic.gif M"0E!8W1I;VXZ($5D=VEN#0U%52M%1E1!("A2:7-T;RD-"2T@1FEN;&amp;%N9"!H M87,@&lt;VEG;F5D('1H92!4;U(@86YD(&amp;-A;B!A='1E;F0@9G)O;2!T:&amp;4@8F5G M:6YN:6YG#0DM($9I;FQA;F0@871T96YD&lt;R!A&lt;R!A;B!%52!C;W5N=')Y#0DM <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130205230357/mailto:M(%1H92!O;FQY(%245&amp;5%24%24@8V%5DU;G1R%3E2!I%3CR!.;W">M(%1H92!O;FQY($5&amp;5$$@8V]U;G1R&gt;2!I&lt;R!.;W</a>)W87DL('=H:6-H(&amp;AA&lt;R!N <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130205230357/mailto:M;W0@%3CVEG;F5D('1H92!4;U(-">M;W0@&lt;VEG;F5D('1H92!4;U(-"0E.;W</a>)W87D@:&amp;%S('1O('-E;F0@82!L971T<br>
end</p>
<p>I can now e-mail my mug shot to anyone I want, even if it goes across dodgy 7 bit ASCII e-mail links.</p>
<h3>Coming Next Time On Alex's Boring Articles:</h3>
<p>Decoding the uuencoded file.<br>
What happens when the uuencoded file gets too large.<br>
Tools to aid uuencoding and uudecoding.<br>
Mime.<br>
Why do my email messages get truncated to 60K or 255K?</p>
</div>
