---
layout:article
title: Paper Clips
subtitle: Those Useful Little Fiddly Little Things
author: Aaron Rice
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R44
pgg_date: 1996/07/08
article_date: 1996/07/08
alternative_title_1: Clips, Paper
alternative_title_2: Temporary Method Of Holding Paper Together
alternative_title_3: Holding Paper Together, A Temporary Method
alternative_title_4: Bendy Metal
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Mon, 1996-07-08 00:00
see_also: ["8R19"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Or at least in a professional way.","[2]":"Okay, it doesn't necessarily have to be a \"spy\" film as-such.","[3]":"If not always, then very often."}
---
<div>
<p>One of the most useful problematic things to deal with when you're trying to keep together many pieces of paper, is how this is to be done. Paper, by its very nature, is not adhesive and requires something more to allow it to remain in a group.</p>
<p>Many solutions have actually been dreamt up for this, some of which involve different types of chemical or water-based adhesive called "glue", and others which attempt to place the corners of the paper into a position where they cannot possibly move on their own. The next set of methods involve binding the paper together by making holes in it, which can make it look scruffy, though it can also be used to good effect, and this is very often the method employed when people are attempting to publish something professionally <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>In between there are various methods that touch on both sides and vary from being more to less effective.</p>
<p>The last method is that of using a "paper clip", which is basically a small curved length of metal shaped into a clip to hold the paper together. This is always a temporary arrangement, however, as the paper clip is not quite strong enough to hold paper together against all the elements. Also, it is certainly not strong enough to hold something together without getting caught on something else entirely, and going off on its own merry way at a very early point in time.</p>
<p>Another major disadvantage of paper clips is the thickness. The amount of paper that you can actually place inside a paper-clip and expect to leave in there is not very large at all. In fact, a few sheets are usually enough before the clip starts to bend, or in extreme cases, snap.</p>
<p>In fact, paper clips serve quite a number of purposes in the modern world. The initial is obviously the use for which it was created, which is that of a "binder". After this, however, the uses become more and more creative, as a paper clip can be used as an engraving tool, a small hanger, part of a string of paper clips in a cheap necklace, and even a tool for cleaning the indescribable gunk that gets under your finger and toe nails. The list is endless, but this article is not.</p>
<p>Actually, though, the paper clip has only found real fame in two uses. The first of these is as an improvised lock pick in spy <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> films, and the second, which may have its roots in the first, is that of an item that somebody can pick apart and unravel when they have nothing else to do, or have something else to do that they are attempting to put off.</p>
<p>It should be noted that the floors of school classrooms or college (or university) lecture-rooms are always <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a> covered in bent paper-clips after a particularly long and boring lecture.</p>
</div>
