---
layout:article
title: Elevation
subtitle: The Sky's The Limit?
author: Aaron Rice
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R45
pgg_date: 1996/07/15
article_date: 1996/07/15
alternative_title_1: Gaining Altitude
alternative_title_2: Altitude, Gaining
alternative_title_3: Height, Gaining
alternative_title_4: Reaching For The Sky
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Mon, 1996-07-15 00:00
see_also: ["2R67", "2R21", "2R87", "6S12"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Fashion varies, but there's usually something along those lines.","[2]":"As the existence of gravity may play havoc with this idea in some circumstances, it is conceded that you may need to elevate yourself to reach items that are technically \"below\" you.","[3]":"Not really a practical idea if you have a large distance to cover, unless you combine it with one of the others.","[4]":"If you are not within a gravitational field, this will not directly apply. However, you will have a cartload of additional problems, including the fact that \"elevation\" is not strictly relevant to you."}
---
<div>
<p>Greater height is almost always seen to be "superior", even though this is a very primitive and narrow way of looking at things. This theory, however, is based on a lot of fact, and is difficult to disprove when you look at many aspects of the world where it is indeed an advantage. Examples of this are wide and varied, and include such things as crowds (chiefly when you are at the back), and reaching for items from a shelf (which is definitely problematic if you aren't tall enough).</p>
<p>As with a lot of things, there are ways to deal with this, whether they be temporary or permanent. A fashion among some people is to wear shoes that are elevated in one way or another <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>. Added to this, a person may wish to supplement their stature by standing on a box or something similar, though this idea is a little flawed if you are going to have to move about a lot. Permanent methods are a little more difficult to implement, and can be very messy.</p>
<p>Further ways of elevation can involve standing on a moving elevated object. Examples of these are things like roller skates (though these may be classified as shoes, which have already been mentioned), skate boards, bikes, or basically any other vehicle where you are able to stand at a greater height than you previously did.</p>
<p>Of course, these methods only apply to small elevations, and are relatively useless when applied to a greater vertical distance, such as a tall building, or any object that is significantly above <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> the ground. Ways of achieving these climbs include methods of propulsion (with, for example, a rocket), a mechanical or manual lift or elevator, and a ladder <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>.</p>
<p>The final thing to bear in mind, however, when you achieve your desired point of elevation, is best summed up in the phrase, "what goes up must come down." It is always vitally important, then, to make sure that you have a usable method to do so, unless you want to allow gravity to do it for you <a href="#footnotes.4" class="footnote-link">[4]</a>.</p>
</div>
