---
layout:article
title: Avoiding Items By Convention
subtitle: Why Isn't Anybody Sitting In That Chair?
author: Aaron Rice
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R46
pgg_date: 1996/07/17
article_date: 1996/07/17
alternative_title_1: Why People Avoid The Same Items
alternative_title_2: Items That Everybody Avoids
alternative_title_3: Conventional Item Avoidance
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Wed, 1996-07-17 00:00
see_also: ["8R40", "8R4"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Some people can be very polite when it comes to it, but in situations like queues, there's very often a \"survival of the fittest\" attitude that would put armies to shame."}
---
<div>
<p>One of the mysteries of modern, and perhaps pre-modern, living is the mystery of the one item that nobody seems to want to touch, for apparently no more reason than the fact that they don't want to be the only one to do so. Whether it is from politeness <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> or some deeper knowledge, there will always be items like this scattered throughout civilisation, whether they be something as simple as the last orange on a market stall, or a chair in that sits quietly next to a post-office queue.</p>
<p>The problem could be that human psychology dictates that any item that is avoided by other people, for whatever reason, must have something wrong with it, and therefore should be avoided like the plague. To test this theory, it merely takes one person to knock back the trend by, say, sitting on a solitary "avoided" chair, and look around at the swarm of amazed glances given by everybody else who assumed the thing was damaged. As soon as you stand up and walk away, someone else is guaranteed to take your place, safe in the knowledge that the chair is harmless.</p>
<p>Another way to solve this is to label the item in advance, to the effect that its lack-of-use, if this is the case, is due to the fact that its use is not currently required, rather than the fact that its usefulness is impeded. However, this method can be flawed if the item is still initially avoided, as people will regard the sign as untruthful, and treat it as if it doesn't exist.</p>
<p>The level of avoidance given to any item in this position is increased as time passes, and eventually, even the bravest of the brave will not go near it. After a while, the actual owner will be forced to replace it with something that is perhaps almost exactly the same, but visibly different in at least one easily identifiable way. This is the only way to cure a long-term evasion.</p>
<p>In the end, however, it's probably just simpler to obtain two identical objects wherever possible, because it is unlikely that they will both get this treatment, and they are also unlikely to be treated differently. You will see the difference if you replace the lone chair with two.</p>
</div>
