---
layout:article
title: Answer Phones
subtitle: I'm Sorry, I'm Not In At The Moment
author: Aaron Rice
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R47
pgg_date: 1996/07/15
article_date: 1996/07/15
alternative_title_1: Phones, Automatic Answering Of
alternative_title_2: Telephones, Automatic Answering Of
alternative_title_3: Machines, Telephone Answering
alternative_title_4: Automatic Answering Of Telephones
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Mon, 1996-07-15 00:00
see_also: ["8S9", "1R17", "8R37", "2S45"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"As things stand at this point.","[2]":"Or perhaps even a single person.","[3]":"Until everybody in the world buys the same tape.","[4]":"This will depend on the number you call, the location of the personality, and their enthusiasm or ability to answer the phone. It's always possible that you will be greeted by someone else with the same name, in which case, you have an instant predictable topic of conversation to start with."}
---
<div>
<p>For the traveler who has at last rooted his or herself to one place, but still needs to leave once in a while, the problem of leaving their telephone alone when somebody might call can make things difficult when the modern telephone on its own, is quite incapable of answering any calls itself <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>This problem caused a group <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> to invent the "answer machine" or "answer phone". This device, quite simply, will answer the phone after a decided number of "rings", play a pre-recorded message to the caller, and then allow them to leave a message. The two are normally separated by a sort of "beep" noise.</p>
<p>Unfortunately, very few people have learned to deal with an answer phone, and therefore sound quite muddled when at last they leave a message, if indeed they do so at all. Examples of these muddles range from, "Oh, I don't know how to use an answer phone," to the stuttered attempts at conversation that some people feel compelled to voice, in the unlikely event that the machine has somehow developed some real intelligence itself and is spending its time pervading warm and comforting feeling while nodding gently. A machine that can actually do this has yet to be invented.</p>
<p>Some people will discover that an answer phone is the best way to "filter" their phone calls. The idea with this is that somebody will switch on their answer phone while they are still indoors. When a call comes in, they will listen and see if it's someone they want to talk to before they go through any of the messy answering business. They will of course come unstuck when an important caller decides that they haven't got time, or don't want to leave a message, and simply hang up. This is a risk you take.</p>
<p>Of course, if you do have a large volume of similar calls, and are unable, or simply unwilling, to sit down and listen to them as they come, an answer phone can prove invaluable. In fact, many places now have answer phones to play short informational messages to people if they call, perhaps listing a time when someone will be there in person to talk to them.</p>
<p>More recently, some companies have realised that there is a market for novelty answer phone message tapes, containing voices of major celebrities, or of vocal artists imitating the same. It is difficult to know if someone is taking the whole business particularly seriously if they use one of these. The temptation is usually to take it as a joke, but it is nevertheless interesting and fun to hear something different for a change <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>. The possibility also exists that when you, say, are greeted by pop-star Michael Jackson, that it may actually be the personality in question <a href="#footnotes.4" class="footnote-link">[4]</a>.</p>
</div>
