---
layout:article
title: Sweeping Statements, Disproving
subtitle: Everybody Can Do This
author: Aaron Rice
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R50
pgg_date: 1996/06/20
article_date: 1996/06/20
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1996-06-20 00:00
see_also: ["2R164"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Well, okay, you might be on your own, or you just invited a delegation of aliens, some imaginary friends, a few actual friends, or a combination of these, for a taste-testing session. The point is not to take examples too literally.","[2]":"If indeed, you are talking to anyone in particular."}
---
<div>
<p>A sweeping statement is a statement that makes a wide-ranging and complete comment about something, or more often, everything. Unfortunately, it is very common for people to make these sorts of statements when they, in fact, are talking about minor groups rather than "everybody" (this being a word they could use).</p>
<p>To define the properties of a sweeping statement more precisely: a "sweeping statement" will contain words such as "everybody", "everything", "nobody" or "nothing" (essentially words of totality, which leave nothing, or very little, out), and will therefore be very easy to disprove, if you can find just one example where it is incorrect.</p>
<p>An example of this is when somebody might claim, "Everybody's drinking new Sugar-Sip!" You might examine this sentence and observe that, while you are packed in a room with the entire population of the universe <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>, you happen to notice that Mr. Bloggs in the corner is picking at the wallpaper and drinking plain water. In that instance you can easily disprove the statement by the simple fact that not <em>everybody</em> is drinking "Sugar-Sip", whatever the hell it's supposed to be.</p>
<p>Disproving statements such as these is the occupation of the pedant, and should be used sparingly if you do not wish to aggravate the person to which you are talking <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>. If, however, you are in the company of somebody who makes many statements like this, a pedantic attitude may in fact begin to coax them away from their habit. It is always a fantastic way to win an argument.</p>
</div>
