---
layout:article
title: Writing Style Of A Tabloid Journalist
subtitle: Scoop! Exclusive!
author: Aaron Rice
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R51
pgg_date: 1996/07/02
article_date: 1996/07/02
alternative_title_1: Newspapers, Writers Of
alternative_title_2: Tabloid Journalist, The Writing Style of A
alternative_title_3: Simplistic Writing
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Tue, 1996-07-02 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {"[1]":"Or possibly the editor.","[2]":"Or the centre pages."}
---
<div>
<p>Some headlines catch your eye, don't they? Even if you are pursuing the normal course of your life, and are perhaps determined to stop your mind from wandering at any cost, a well written headline can attract the attention of the most determined soul. Large fonts are a favourite. A short word will be large enough to span the front page and proclaim loudly, "I am here!" Perhaps for added effect these are sometimes turned a different and more striking colour, such as red.</p>
<p>The problem comes when you give in to the urge, and go to find out exactly what the reporter <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> was actually intending to inform you. This is because many tabloid reporters have the uncanny ability to make so much of so little, and blow one tiny little mislead fact into a giant news-monster that could gobble the Earth <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>.</p>
<p>Exaggeration is the main characteristic, where a small fire can be portrayed as a gaping inferno, and a slight disagreement as a "massive split." The size of the event is always thought to make it more interesting to potential readers, which is true to an extent, as fiction is sometimes more interesting than the truth.</p>
<p>Also, it is sometimes necessary to keep in mind the motives of the writer or the "newspaper" in general. Many will attempt to promote and pervade their views through the exclusion of many facts which would provide more balanced reading. Examples of this are where, in politics, the views of one party alone will be allowed to run riot through the text.</p>
<p>Generally, a tabloid journalist will also express their story in a very simple way, to allow the more intellectually challenged or skimming reader to pick up on the basic information quickly and easily, without losing their attention. It is therefore unlikely that you will find long words or paragraphs.</p>
</div>
