---
layout:article
title: Hats: Berets
subtitle: Anarchy, The Military, And Fashion
author: Gavin Schmitt
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R54
pgg_date: 1996/09/101998/01/23
article_date: 1996/09/10, 1998/01/23
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: Berets
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 2010-10-21 16:00
see_also: ["2S38", "6S1"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"A very special thanks to Ben Heinl for this section.","[2]":"See the John Wayne movie of the same name for reference.","[3]":"ROTC stands for \"Reserve Officers Training Corps\", which pretty much sums up what it is.","[4]":"\"Command and Conquer\" comes to mind. The game is divided between two opposing sides, GDI and NOD. For a while, a man named Seth - who wears a black beret just like mine - stole the throne from Kaine. Relevance? Probably none.","[5]":"(Editors Note) In fact the British military genius Montgomery was also famous for wearing a beret so it is a military fashion which knows no boundaries.","[6]":"Despite being an avid beret-wearer, the author in no way condones or wishes to promote anarchy."}
---
<div>
<p>Those of you out there who have (or lack) hair like I do, can probably benefit from a simple device called a hat. Hats come in all shapes, sizes, colors, and religious denominations, but my hat of choice is definitely a beret.</p>
<h3>History Of The Beret</h3>
<p>Well, the beret is so old no one can be sure of its basic history, but we do know that it originated in France, "beret" being a French word.. Yet, like many words, beret actually comes from a Latin word, in this case "birretum", which means "cap". And basically, "cap" is exactly what a beret is. A floppy cap.</p>
<p>After a while, the various militaries found the hat to be perfect for ceremonies or other non-physical military activities. They would wear them for decoration, and still do. The beret has become so popular that it has spread to high schools where girls use them as fashionable headgear, and certain guys use them to dare to be different.</p>
<p>A variation of the military style is used in Boy Scouting, with the beret being maroon with a Harvester patch on it.</p>
<h3>Two Beret Wanna-Bees</h3>
<p>The more common of the two beret-like hats is the notorious painter's hat. This hat is worn by (stereotypical) French painters, and beatniks. It is my belief this is actually what berets used to look like, but the knowledge has died over the years. They differ from military berets in three ways: they are brighter colored, are floppier and more "deflated", and they have an annoying little stem on them. They should be considered as fashionable as military berets, but are not to be taken as serious.</p>
<p>The other type is a newer and fast-spreading cousin of the beret. I call them "beret flapcaps". I don't know if they've become a worldwide thing, but at least in the United States they have taken their place amongst trendy people and teenage gangs. Flapcaps are recognizable as being like a baseball cap, but having a beret-like fabric on top, slightly flopped, and no sports team is advertised. The extra 'flop' snaps down on to the bill of the cap. They are often seen in black, gray, and plaid. Although being beret-like, I feel that anyone wearing these hats is offending the beret-wearing community by using a cheap substitute.</p>
<h3>Berets In The U.S. Military [1]</h3>
<p>The following colors apply to U.S. Military, each one representing a different unit or strike force. In a similar fashion this is practiced in other countries too.</p>
<pre>
  Green Berets:  Worn by members of the U.S. Army Special Forces. <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>
  Red Berets:    Worn by members of ROTC (Rot-See) and other subgroups <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>.
  Black Berets:  Worn by the Rangers, a subgroup of the US Army.  They are
                 a special force, affetionately known as "the kings of light
                 infantry".
  Maroon Berets:  Worn by members of airborne units, who have successfully
                 passed jump school.  Any non-jumpers are known as "legs"
                 to encourage them to jump.
  The Rare Purple Beret:  Undercover operations.  These are rarely seen and
                 cannot be bought in stores.  I have never seen
                 one, but my cousin Paul says they exist (and he's
                 in the army).
</pre>
<h3>Berets in the Middle East</h3>
<p>It has become a stereotype in many cartoons, photos, video games <a href="#footnotes.4" class="footnote-link">[4]</a>, etc. that military officials in the Middle East wear crooked black berets. I wear such a beret (U.S. Made) and have been accused of being "Saddam Hussein in Disguise" or a "Nazi". And for the record, Nazis aren't even in the Middle East. I do, however, understand where people get this idea from, with media people like Hussein and Kadhafi going around wearing them. <a href="#footnotes.5" class="footnote-link">[5]</a></p>
<h3>Anarchy [6]</h3>
<p>Berets and anarchy have long been associated with one another. When you see someone on TV wearing a beret, you probably think, "This guy's just about as liberal and free-thinking as you can get". I don't have any idea what berets and anarchy have in common, though. There's no practical use to berets in anarchy (except maybe sewing on a patch of your gang or terrorist organization).</p>
<p>Yet, patches have a very dark image most of the time, making the viewer think of nothing but evil (of course the dark clothes and unshaven face add to this). So some anarchists choose to brighten up their uniforms and please other people by wearing bright, colorful buttons like the "Smiley". Buttons are the anarchist's way of saying, "I Hate Government, I Love You." A good example of this is on the television show "The Young Ones". Other than that, I've never seen buttons on berets, and I don't feel they belong there, either. Even cute "Have a Nice Day" buttons.</p>
<p>And though I've seen all these things in action firsthand, I still say the best use for a beret is <em>my</em> use: to cover up really bad hair.</p>
</div>
