---
layout:article
title: Rich, Get
subtitle: How To Get Rich Slowly
author: John Murphy
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R55
pgg_date: 1996/09/27
article_date: 1996/09/27
alternative_title_1: Get Rich
alternative_title_2: You Too Can Get Rich Slow!!! (Parody)
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1996-09-27 00:00
see_also: ["6R35"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"In case you're wondering, this is my response to all those who insist on shoving their own get-rich-quick schemes in my mailbox and news reader. All I ask of those of you who enjoyed this little thing is to send it on every time a similar situation bugs you. Thanks!!"}
---
<div>
<p>This letter is PERSONAL TESTIMONY from someone who "GOT RICH QUICK!" and who wants you to have the same opportunity:</p>
<p>You, yes, you, can be a millionaire if you want to be! "Why," you say, "you don't even know me! I'm a wastrel, a gambler, a drunkard, and an all-round loser! What makes you think that I could be a millionaire?"</p>
<p>Easy. Because I know a little secret, and I'm going to share it with you. You see, inside of everyone, is a little miser. Some little, shriveled, disgusting old man that says, "You don't need that stereo!" or "What, are you nuts?! They're perfectly good childrens' servings for half the price!" What I'm going to tell you is how to make that little miser pay off big time.</p>
<p><strong>**</strong><strong>* THIS IS PERFECTLY LEGAL! *</strong><strong>**</strong>*</p>
<p>I have painstakingly researched everything in this post (well, okay, I read a few cereal boxes and watched one episode of Sixty Minutes), and have come to the conclusion that very little, if any, of it is illegal. If it is, let me know and I'll most likely beg and plead and promise you all sorts of money if only you won't break my kneecaps.</p>
<p><strong>**</strong>*<strong>* THIS IS NOT A PYRAMID SCHEME *</strong><strong>**</strong>***</p>
<p>In fact, I slept through that section of Ancient Egyptian History. But, even if it were, I PROBABLY WOULDN'T TELL YOU ANYWAY! Why? Because if I did, then nobody would participate, and half the fun of pyramid schemes is getting in touch with new and interesting people, getting to know and love them, then SOAKING them for all they're worth!</p>
<p><strong>**</strong><strong>* THIS REALLY WORKS *</strong><strong>**</strong>*</p>
<p>I am now completely and totally debt-free. No credit card bills (even those guys at Sears won't give me a card), no student loans (ahhh, but with my newfound wealth, I'll make those admissions officers pay) and I even bought a NEW CAR! Yessir, I bought a 1995 Pinto, driven only once, and sold shortly after at the previous owner's estate auction. Even better, I have a wonderful job, McDonald's has never treated me better, and let me tell you, I never wore that paper hat with more pride.</p>
<p><strong>**</strong>*<strong>* SO, HOW DOES IT WORK???? *</strong><strong>**</strong>*</p>
<p>But that's the simple part! This whole process works on the self-flagellation technique of money saving. All you have to do is this:</p>
<p>Hate yourself. Spend your entire life doing nothing but working four or five jobs. Buy things like beans, rice and coffee in bulk and eat nothing but three servings of each every day (don't even bother cooking it, and see how much you save on water bills!) Even better, those cloth sacks they come in make FANTASTIC clothes for the cheap-o in all of us. Don't bathe, live in darkness, and once you've read those discarded papers, burn them for warmth! All the while, your earnings from those jobs will be piling up in the bank, accumulating all sorts of interest while you make new friends of all your new and interesting parasites!</p>
<p>I GUARANTEE THAT USING THIS METHOD WILL HELP YOU ACCUMULATE A MILLION DOLLARS IN TEN OR TWELVE YEARS EASY!</p>
<p>You might even live long enough to enjoy it!!! <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a></p>
</div>
