---
layout:article
title: Communicating With The Dead, A Guide To
subtitle: It's Good To Talk
author: Aaron Rice
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R60
pgg_date: 1996/11/25
article_date: 1996/11/25
alternative_title_1: Guide To Communicating With The Dead, A
alternative_title_2: Dead People, Communicating With
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Mon, 1996-11-25 01:00
see_also: ["2S65", "6U10", "2U38", "8R58", "2R10"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Ex-person, dead person, former person; the point is that the person is not alive.","[2]":"If they have one. If not, you may improvise if necessary. Failing that, just try shouting at them again.","[3]":"Not too close."}
---
<div>
<p>Communicating with the dead requires the careful completion of three distinct stages: establishing of a post-mortality state; the methods you might use to send an initial message; and the ways in which you might interpret a response.</p>
<h2>Establishing Post-Mortality State</h2>
<p>First, you must establish that the person <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> is in fact not alive. This can be achieved in a number of ways, but the following six-step plan is usually very effective:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Ask them for the time.</li>
<li value="2">Shout at them, and see if they respond. Try asking if they are dead.</li>
<li value="3">Dial their mobile phone number <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>, and wait for an answer.</li>
<li value="4">Check the obituary column in the newspaper, and see if they're mentioned.</li>
<li value="5">Check the graveyard for their tomb stone.</li>
<li value="6">Medically assess the situation by checking for a pulse. If they have a pulse, they are likely to be alive, but if they are still unconscious, check for any valid medical insurance documentation on their person; failure to find this could mean that this is only temporary.</li>
</ol>
<h2>Methodology</h2>
<p>Once you have established that they are no longer in the land of the living, you have several ways in which you might set about getting a message to them.</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Whisper; you might move your mouth close <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a> to their ear, and talk to them.</li>
<li value="2">Morse Code; simple, as long as they understand Morse code.</li>
<li value="3">Religion; go to your local church, and ask them to relay a message.</li>
<li value="4">A Medium; ask one of these to pass the message on.</li>
</ol>
<h2>Interpreting Responses</h2>
<ol>
<li value="1">Individual; it may be up to you alone to interpret the response, which may come in one of many forms. Trust in yourself and your own knowledge, even if you do not possess any.</li>
<li value="2">Religion; the response is likely to have a religious connotation, and may contain the words "thy" or "lord".
<ol>
<li value="1">"Good" Religions, ie. those with the word "good" used favourably; the words may encourage you to perform some charitably act, such as give away all your money to your local church. Trust in their motives.</li>
<li value="2">"Bad" Religions, ie. those with the word "bad" used favourably; the words may encourage you to perform some vile and deplorable act, such as ritually sacrifice all of your friends. Trust in their motives.</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li value="3">A Medium; likely to be a positive response, encouraging you to be forever indebted to the "translator", and very willing to return, and to pay whatever fee they see appropriate. Trust in their motives.</li>
</ol>
<p>On the whole, it is always better to do the job yourself, so at least you know exactly what went on. You may find, however, that the response you get is very brief, or non-existent, in which case, you will have very little to show for your efforts.</p>
<h2>Conclusion</h2>
<p>Is there really any point?</p>
</div>
