---
layout:article
title: Haggling
subtitle: It's A Deal
author: Aaron Rice
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R72
pgg_date: 1997/02/03
article_date: 1997/02/03
alternative_title_1: Deal, Making A
alternative_title_2: Making A Deal
alternative_title_3: Fixing Payment For Goods
alternative_title_4: Goods, Fixing Payment For
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Mon, 1997-02-03 01:00
see_also: ["8R70", "2R37"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Though this is not always the case.","[2]":"There are exceptions, such as when you buy some second-hand goods, such as cars. In these situations, be very very careful, as you almost certainly have less practice in payment negotiation.","[3]":"To practice, approach every situation with monumental arrogance. You might want to enter conversations with outrageous and completely inaccurate statements, and totally refuse to admit your mistake. Just keep plugging away with more and more ridiculous arguments [4].","[4]":"When you are finished, you may even be ready to become a politician."}
---
<div>
<p>Haggling is, in many of what are regarded as "less economically developed" <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> civilizations, an acceptable means of agreeing payment for goods. It is not deemed to be good manners to, in the so-called civilized world, meet a request for payment with an attempt to haggle <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>.</p>
<p>A "normal" conversation in a modern capitalist society might be:</p>
<pre>
          Cashier:  "That'll be twenty-nine pounds and ninety-nine pence
                    please."
          (Customer hands Cashier thirty pounds in cash.)
          Cashier:  "Thank you.  That's one penny change."
          (Cashier hands customer one penny and the receipt.)
          Customer:  "Thank you."
</pre>
<p>Though perhaps a little polite, this is a reasonable example of what might happen. There are, of course, various alternatives, such as the "credit card variant", the name of which will prove example enough.</p>
<p>If you decide to mix cultures together, you could end up with something like this:</p>
<dl compact>
<dt>Cashier</dt>
<dd>"That'll be twenty-nine pounds and ninety-nine pence please."</dd>
<dt>Customer</dt>
<dd>"Fifteen."</dd>
<dt>Cashier</dt>
<dd>"I beg your pardon?"</dd>
<dt>Customer</dt>
<dd>"Okay, twenty."</dd>
<dt>Cashier</dt>
<dd>"You must be joking."</dd>
<dt>Customer</dt>
<dd>"Look, twenty-two, and it's my last offer."</dd>
<dt>Cashier</dt>
<dd>"I'm going to get the manager/police/doctor."</dd>
</dl>
<p>With this too, there are variants. The "pay up or I'll use your internal organs to redecorate the walls" variation, or the "humour the poor fool" method. The latter of these is less likely in most larger shops, as the cashiers are not trained for such intellectually challenging situations.</p>
<p>If you are in a situation where haggling is legitimate, and you are able to partake in it, here are a few tips you might bare in mind.</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Pick a low price to start at, and look totally serious about it. It matters not if your opening bid is way too low; it proves you are a shrewd bargainer. <em>Always</em> open at a lower bid that the amount you intend to pay.</li>
<li value="2">Try to move up in fairly small steps. If your opponent matches you in this, it may be necessary to enlarge the steps, just to prevent the whole process from failing totally. If these enlarged steps do not provoke an immediate compromise, return to the smaller steps.</li>
<li value="3">Above all, be persistent and never give up. Added to this, you must never <em>look</em> like you're going to give up; an experienced salesman will recognise the signs of a weak customer. Never lose your nerve <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>.</li>
<li value="4">Never show that you have money. If a salesman can see that you can afford a certain figure, he or she will push at that figure as hard as possible.</li>
<li value="5">If possible, try to drop into the conversation that you have already seen the item on sale elsewhere, and that it was much cheaper there. Do not, under any circumstances, do this if you think the item in question is unique.</li>
<li value="6">On no account allow anyone else to join in the bidding, unless they are working for yourself; an experienced and crafty salesman may use a plant to draw the bidding upwards.</li>
<li value="7">Never pay more for an item that you intend to; if the bidding reaches a certain point, simply state that you are no longer interested and begin to walk away. If your opponent is really desperate to sell, they will approach you with another offer.</li>
</ol>
</div>
