---
layout:article
title: Morrison, Paul Fraser
subtitle: The Brief Version
author: Paul Morrison
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 8R89
pgg_date: 1998/04/17
article_date: 1998/04/17
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1998-04-17 00:00
see_also: ["8R75"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Paul Morrison was born on 31 January 1977. This was a totally unremarkable event as far as the grand scheme of things is concerned, but for obvious reasons this date holds some rather sentimental value for him.</p>
<p>His boringly normal upbringing has left him with absolutely no mental disturbances, closeted skeletons, or any other features which would make for a good article or two. He is most unimpressed with this situation, and feels that a dysfunctional family would have done wonders for his writing career, as well as make him seem interesting and colourful. Alas, one can not have things entirely one's own way.</p>
<p>Having been born in Cape Town, South Africa, and having lived there his entire life, he feels that he is perfectly qualified to write articles with a South African flair. Whether or not articles with a South African flair are a Good Thing to have in the Guide has yet to be determined.</p>
<p>Paul is currently studying for his degree in Information Technology. This, he hopes, will enable him to earn lots of cash in a good job, but he has not yet totally abandoned his plans of winning millions in the lottery, or finding oil in his back garden. These, he feels, are not unreasonable goals, but he must admit that the derision with which his peers consider his plans does occasionally cause him some doubt.</p>
<p>Writing about himself in the third person makes him very uncomfortable, which is why this article finishes at this point.</p>
</div>
