---
layout:article
title: Bubble Wrap Game, The
subtitle: A Brilliant Idea From The Prince Of Fun
author: Alexander Lachlan McLintock
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 8S11
pgg_date: 1996/05/29
article_date: 1996/05/29
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Wed, 1996-05-29 00:00
see_also: ["2R57"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Ok, ok, if they each have a different number on then they aren't identical.","[2]":"thirty seconds may be too long if your pieces of bubble wrap are too small."}
---
<div>
<p>First get the following items:</p>
<pre>
          1 stopwatch (optional),
          1 whistle or horn (optional),
          n microphones (optional),
          n identical pieces of bubble wrap marked with numbers from
            1 to n (not optional) <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.
</pre>
<p>"n" stands for the number of competitors, typically two or more. This number is dependant on the number of drunk people in the vicinity or, alternatively, the number of science fiction fans nearby (they'll try anything).</p>
<p>Bubble wrap is a strange device generally used for packing material. In some areas it is used to great effect as a tension relieving device. Bubble wrap is a plastic sheet with soft air-filled blisters. It is impossible to hold this plastic without involuntarily popping one or more of the bubbles. The fact that this can be quite therapeutic was noticed by one Piggy Wilkinson in the last years of the twentieth century. He took this packing material, painted it red, and sold it under the trademarked name of "Tension Sheet". He made a lot of money.</p>
<p>Some time before playing the game count the number of intact bubbles on the wrap. If the n pieces really are identical then I suppose you can dispense with this step. Gather your competitors (and if possible an audience) in front of the optional microphones. Explain the rules to them:</p>
<p>They have thirty seconds <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> to pop as many bubbles as they can, using nothing but their hands. If possible they should pop the bubbles near to the microphones.</p>
<p>Next give them each a piece of wrap, making sure none of the competitors touches them until the (optional) whistle is blown. Blow the (optional) whistle and start the (optional) stopwatch at the same time. When the thirty seconds are up blow the (optional) whistle and make sure that everyone stops popping. Have your (optional) lovely assistants count the remaining bubbles. The competitor with the fewest wins! A prize may be optional at this point. But with some people it may not.</p>
<p>This game is copyright Alex McLintock. Permission is granted to use this game in any non-recorded, non-broadcast event. Would network television stations please contact me about a deal for a new game show.</p>
</div>
