---
layout:article
title: Trosa, Sweden, Earth
subtitle: The End Of The World In Sweden
author: Dennis Roren
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 8S18
pgg_date: 1998/03/20
article_date: 1998/03/20
alternative_title_1: Vaerldens Aende, Sweden, Earth
alternative_title_2: End Of The World, Sweden, Earth, The
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1998-03-20 01:00
see_also: ["1R1", "2R81", "2S10", "2S64", "8S19"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Trosa, where life hibernates during the winter, and starts to awaken during spring, to be fully awake in the summer. This little town, also called "Vaerldens aende", which is synonymous to "the end of the world", lies very isolated at the eastern coast of Sweden, and has a population of around 1200 people in the winter, which triples to about 3600 in the summer.</p>
<p>If you should happen to land here, and for some reason need something to eat, be sure to either be here in the summer time, or between 10 am to 6 pm, otherwise you will find that nothing is open.</p>
<p>You might find some people working in a little company lying in the outskirts of town, but apart from that, this town is pretty <em>dead</em> in the winter time -- trust me, I have lived here.</p>
<p>It is a quiet town that is nice to visit in the summer, when there are lots of ships of different types and sizes in the harbour, and there is a nice amount of partying going on, and so on.</p>
<p>The people here are pretty easy to spot:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">All of them (at least 90%) are whiskey drinkers. (Some drink the more expensive types.)</li>
<li value="2">Everyone drinks Pripps (a typical Swedish brand of beer that I have little, actually, <em>no</em> understanding for...).</li>
<li value="3">All use most of their time doing the things above, but not until a full day's work has been done.</li>
</ol>
<p>When I got here with my towel (and some other things) I was almost at once accepted and drawn in to their strange activities. At the time of my leaving I got a nice send-off, so the people here, I dare say, are mostly harmless...</p>
<p>If you are ever in Sweden, and in the vicinity of Gothenburg, send me a note and I might tell you a little more of what I know about Sweden!</p>
</div>
