---
layout:article
title: Leif, Miss Universe, And Everything
subtitle: United States Of America, Earth - A Few Things You Should Know
author: Gregory C. Wait, aka Xang Woopy 101010
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 8S2
pgg_date: 1995/10/10
article_date: 1995/10/10
alternative_title_1: USA, Earth
alternative_title_2: America, The United States Of
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Tue, 1995-10-10 00:00
see_also: ["1R1", "8R59"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"The Global Naming Council (see also: Global Council of Names, Council for the Naming of Things, and Names 'R Us) was set up in 1334 AD to ensure appropriate, concise naming of new discoveries and avoid duplication of names (such as Paris, France and Paris, Texas). Abolished in 1643 AD after anarchists took over the offices and named a small, peanut-shaped country in Europe Belgium.","[2]":"The Miss Universe Pageant might have been more appropriately named if the Global Naming Council had not been abolished in 1634 AD (see above)."}
---
<div>
<p>The United States of America is (or was, depending upon when you are reading this) a loose confederation of geographical regions under a large, unwieldy, and unpopular federal government. History is a bit hazy as to why everyone wanted to hitch their wagon to everyone elses, but they don't really like you to ask questions like that nowadays. The "Yoo-Ess" as it is called, the "Land of milk and honey," (see "Bovine torture" and "Bee larceny" respectively) is (or was) a strange land of contradictions and out and out fallacies.</p>
<p>Take the Vikings, for instance. Yoo-Ess history teaches that the Vikings discovered America. History books tell of the adventures of an early Earth hitchhiker named Leif Erickson. Leif was, if not the first to sail to the "new world," the first with a reasonably pronounceable name. Although Leif was given credit for the discovery, the Global Naming Council <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> chose to name the new continent "America" after a map-maker named Amerigo Vespucci. They did this despite the fact that it was a tremendous slight to Leif, risking the wrath of a Viking who definitely knew where his towel was, because they couldn't stand the thought of a continent named "Ericka."</p>
<p>For a long time modern history books had credited a Christopher Columbus with the discovery of America, but he was stripped of the honor when he failed to pay back the money he borrowed to make the trip. As a consolation to his descendants, he is now credited with the discovery of a medium-sized town in Ohio.</p>
<p>While all of this may seem confusing to you, imagine the confusion of the people who were there all along when they found out that although they and their ancestors had been born, lived, and died on that very continent, they hadn't actually "discovered" it in a legal sense, and had no legitimate claim to their land, homes, or property. They even had to call themselves "Indians," just because Columbus wasn't so good with maps, and so were forced to give up their ancestral name, "Occupants."</p>
<p>Humans are (or were) a very competitive race, but find themselves largely removed from the natural competition of "eat or be eaten" by the fact that the only species of equal intellect on Earth are all herbivorous, and are therefor too busy standing in line at the salad-bar to do anyone an injury. For a while man was able to fill this void by engaging in the dangerous sport of discovery, as did Messrs. Erickson, Columbus, and Vespucci, but after a while everything worth discovering had been discovered. The continents were mapped, the oceans named, and most of the really fun animals to hunt and kill had all been hunted and killed.</p>
<p>To compensate for the lack of true competition in their lives humans created artificial competitions or "contests," often combining the tactical strategy of warfare with the dangers of a really large crowd. In Europe the most popular and dangerous of these is the football match, the general idea behind which is to have a handful of men in colorful shorts chase a small ball around a field so as to distract some of the crowd long enough for the other spectators to attack them.</p>
<p>In America, the most bizarre and dangerous of these contests is the Miss Universe Pageant, in which females are judged by a panel of judges on how well the judges like them. While this may seem totally different from the European football match, they are really only variations on a theme. In the Miss Universe Pageant, women in various stages of undress parade around on-stage, singing off-key and throwing batons into the overhead rigging so as to distract the judges long enough to keep the judges from attacking them.</p>
<p>Only human females born on Earth are allowed to compete, which makes the name, the "Miss Universe Pageant," at least a little inappropriate <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>, and (some say) making any victory a shallow one, at best. While many purists are insistent upon keeping the entry rules as they are, some people have called for a liberalization of the rules, allowing for entries from elsewhere in the universe. The proponents of change argue that it would make for a more interesting competition, increase revenues from entry fees, and are quick to point out that the human contestants would still retain the home-world advantage.</p>
</div>
