---
layout:article
title: Curry And The Ozone Layer
subtitle: Be An Environmentalist And Abolish Vegetables
author: Chris Grace
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 8S3
pgg_date: 1995/02/17
article_date: 1995/02/17
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1995-02-17 01:00
see_also: ["2S71"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>I believe that as environmentally conscious citizens of the world (TM) we should be campaigning to have curry abolished.</p>
<p>As we all know, cow and sheep farts are some of the major contaminants of the Ozone Layer and contributors to the greenhouse effect.</p>
<p>I respectfully submit that four pints of lager and a chicken biryani have the cumulative effect of at least six sheep or one cow. If you substitute Draught Guinness for Lager things get even worse.</p>
<p>Bearing in mind that Curry dishes are widespread throughout Great Britain, the Indian Subcontinent, and much of South East Asia, the overall damage caused by these dishes is quite staggering (as is the damage to certain mucous membranes the next morning).</p>
<p>We should also consider the impact of Haricot Beans in Tomato Sauce, Tacos, Doner Kebab, and those little round lentil cake thingies they sell in Middle Eastern Restaurants.</p>
<p>In fact, it is my considered opinion that Health Food Fanatics and Vegetarians, by their selfish failure to adhere to a sensible diet of Roast Beef and Yorkshire Pudding, are contributing to the eventual ecological disaster when the air temperature in Siberia will reach 60 degrees Celcius and you will be able to eat Prawns straight out of the Sea without boiling them first.</p>
<p>Let's get environmentally sensitive, and STAMP OUT VEGETABLES.</p>
</div>
