---
layout:article
title: Pink Plastic Chair Phenomenon
subtitle: The Pink Plastic Chairs Are Here And Multiplying Rapidly
author: Todd "Baravard" Schmitt
factuality: UnReal
pgg_id: 8U15
pgg_date: 1996/08/08
article_date: 1996/08/08
alternative_title_1: Chairs: Friend Or Foe?
alternative_title_2: Pink Chair Defense Squad
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Thu, 1996-08-08 00:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {"[1]":"Author continues writing after being given a hefty dose of tranquilizer.","[2]":"That's five meters.","[3]":"Tonto was well known for having a horribly uncomfortable case of hemorrhoids.","[4]":"And all this before the cops could set down their box of doughnuts.","[5]":"Some Pink Plastic Chairs have evolved the ability of Insidious Mind-Control to use against the daily consumer. They trick them into buying more and more Pink Plastic Chairs."}
---
<div>
<p>Yes, you're thinking that Pink Plastic Chairs are just comfortable pieces of plastic there to sit yourself down on and have a cool drink, but you are wrong. Pink Plastic Chairs are one of very few "inanimate" objects that have suddenly turned out to be lethal.</p>
<p>Originally, strange happenstances I observed at my friends house about Pink Plastic Chairs made me wonder; but as the reports of lawn-chair related deaths started streaming in, I did a little research. In every major culture the same basic shape for chairs appears again and again. Why? My theory is that these chair-builders actually based their designs on an actual creature. Rarely seen for what it really is, these deadly chairs move among us, and occasionally feed upon us. From cave paintings to Egyptian art to stone sculpture, warnings are written of a killer <em>something</em> that can sneak up on you when you least expect it: A Pink Plastic Chair.</p>
<h2>Prehistoric Encounters</h2>
<p>The Pink Chair Phenomenon has been recorded by all major civilizations. Pink Chairs were originally feared by the caveman when they had only evolved as far as Stone Chairs. They were often quite uncomfortable, though, and didn't get as many victims as today's Cozy Intruders. Early cave paintings reveal cavemen trapped between the mighty pink arm rests of these horrible creatures.</p>
<p>Evolution Explanation: The early Chairs were less comfortable, and so the people sitting on them often left before they could be devoured. "Me hurt-um back, me out of here..." So, as time continues, the Chairs will become more and more appealing until we won't be able to resist!!! They'll eat us by the dozens!! Oh, God. The humanity! <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a></p>
<h2>Early Encounters</h2>
<p>Christopher Columbus sailed the Atlantic all the way from Spain to America. He then ran on to the New World with his best friends: Edgar, Jimm, and Tonto. He carried with him a flag of Spain and a Jar of Jif peanut butter. He stabbed the flag into the ground and said: "I claim this land in the name of Spain!". Shortly afterwards, they noticed some Pink Wooden Chairs at the edge of the woods. They worked a while, when Tonto finally noticed that some of the Chairs were less than fifteen feet from the ship <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>. Tonto had some problems, and not resisting a comfortable-looking wooden chair just happened to be one of them. Tonto was drawn to the chair by an unnatural force, beckoning to him to seat himself on its well-polished oaken majesty. Finally, Tonto couldn't control himself any longer. Seeing that Chris was in the john, he quickly limped <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a> to the Pink Chair. Lining his posterior up with the chair, he quickly sat down. Thirty minutes later, when Chris left the little boys' room, all they found was a fashionable chair and a pile of hemorrhoids. Chris was dumb-struck, absolutely desolate, and mildly suicidal: the natives had eaten Tonto (or so he believed), and even more shocking -- his Jif was gone.</p>
<h2>Ever-So-Slightly Awhile Ago Encounters</h2>
<p>May, 1957</p>
<p>The hottest day of the year... I'm talking so hot that we staked out my sister and fried an egg on her. It was also dry. I'm talking so dry that... (<em>shut up</em>!!). Okay, so anyway, it was 9:32, and black as the ace of spades. The police had been staking out a bar on the edge of town for weeks. Suddenly, a white Ford Bronco pulled up and two midgets walked out carrying an unidentified pink object. They quickly kicked open the door, threw the object in, got in the car, and drove away <a href="#footnotes.4" class="footnote-link">[4]</a>. The cops entered the bar forty-five minutes later toting M-16's, tear-gas, and some warning labels ripped off of mattresses. The bar was far from spotless, but all the customers had disappeared; all that was left was an Aluminum Pink Chair. Twenty minutes later, when the police officers suddenly disappeared, a rescue squad was called in. Forty-five minutes later, when the rescue team disappeared, a rescue-team rescue team was called in...</p>
<h2>Present Day Encounters: My Real-Life Example(s)</h2>
<p>Jenny Kempen's house, a Christmas in July party. I can't quite recall what month it was, but it was nice weather for volleyball. Jenny's parents set out some lawn chairs and some Pink Plastic Chairs <a href="#footnotes.5" class="footnote-link">[5]</a>. I originally saw two Chairs; merely hours later they had multiplied to four! I tried explaining my Pink Plastic Chair Theory to my friends, but they wouldn't listen (sounds a bit like Jurassic Park). Later that night, I took my sombrero off, and Jenny set it on a Pink Chair; no one ever found the hat again. After the party Jenny's parents found a pair of underwear and a swimsuit. Perhaps someone's child disappeared after being seen on a little Pink Plastic Chair?</p>
<p>A hunter in San Antonio was captured on amateur video after a huge Pink Chair came crashing down on him from a tree. Unfortunately, this video cannot be shown on this system. Why this hunter was in San Antonio is yet to be uncovered.</p>
<h2>Other Species Of Chairs To Beware Of</h2>
<dl compact>
<dt>Velcro Covered Chairs</dt>
<dd>people with curly hair, beware... Yeah, that's right, beware.</dd>
<dt>Fly-Paper Chairs</dt>
<dd>look out for Pink Chairs with all kinds of crap stuck to them (especially flies, hair, lint, and other small furry creatures.)</dd>
<dt>Stools</dt>
<dd>not really chairs, but beware.</dd>
<dt>Pink Recliners</dt>
<dd>too deadly to receive accurate information on. (Beware)</dd>
</dl>
<p>For more information on chairs, consult your local librarian.</p>
<p>To report a mysterious chair, call 1-800-NO-2-PINK, or e-mail The Pink Chair Defense Squad at Baravard1@juno.com</p>
</div>
