---
layout:article
title: Magazines
subtitle: The Mating Habits Of Magazines In Snarkefellian Studys
author: Ian Dean
factuality: UnReal
pgg_id: 8U3
pgg_date: 1995/06/16
article_date: 1995/06/16
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Fri, 1995-06-16 00:00
see_also: ["2U62"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>The mating habits of magazines in the confines of the average snarkefellian study.</p>
<p>Magazines like proximity to each other so that they can lose themselves right when you are looking for them. In Snarkefellia magazines reproduce by combining advertisements through the generations, while looking externally similar as one or the other of their parents. This makes life very difficult for the average snarkefellian, as they can never find that ad for that computer they were looking at just last month. It also means that any useful information is progressively lost from generation to generation, forcing the snarkefellians to learn things all over again over time. This has been likened to following certain products, such as word processors, where they change sufficiently from one release to the next so that you have to relearn everything again.</p>
<p>Snarkefellian intelligence is thus not very advanced, and quick learning is very well considered. The average snarkefellian dinner party consists of digging through back issues of magazines in studys looking for articles which were seen just last month. Snarkefellian magazine's reproductive habits will be the subject of other articles, suffice to say we thought Earth Humans were strange! The location of the study of a snarkefellian is always some distance from the house due to the noise of the abovementioned mating habits. Male snarkefellian magazines (those in the male mode, i.e. electronics, construction and bricklaying magazines etc.) attract the females of their species via the rustling and fanning of their pages. Female magazines reciprocate the interest by sliding over and falling on top of their preferred partner (female mode magazines include dressmaking, fashion and other similarly useless wastes of good matter), smothering them in the snarkefellian magazine way, and then proceed to procreate.</p>
<p>After the birth of their children (in small removable booklet form) they proceed to fill as much space as possible until they are packaged and returned for recycling, therefore living another day and adding more matter to the waste piles.</p>
</div>
