---
layout:article
title: Profession: Paper Courier
subtitle: Teenaged Postal Workers
author: Mike "Gavin" Schmitt
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 9R22
pgg_date: 1996/11/19
article_date: 1996/11/19
alternative_title_1: Newspaper Delivery
alternative_title_2: Paper Courier: A Profession
alternative_title_3: Courier, Paper
alternative_title_4: Delivering Papers, The Profession Of
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Tue, 1996-11-19 01:00
see_also: []
footnotes: {"[1]":"For a forty-paper route, that's a measly $2.80 a day in United States currency.","[2]":"The US postal service will not deliver to a full mailbox.","[3]":"Usually by the time you can drive yourself around, you're smart enough to realize you can work at a grocery store or restaurant for ten times the salary and without any of these hassles."}
---
<div>
<p>Paper couriers are the people, usually teenagers, who deliver the newspaper to your door every day, rain or shine, in sleet or snow, tornado and earthquake. We're more devoted to the cause than postal workers, being generally earlier and working all seven days a week. However, we have two peeves we'd like to bring up front:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">We are not 'paper carriers'. We don't carry the paper, we go door to door to bring your news; and</li>
<li value="2">We are not 'paper boys'. A good percentage of our staff are not even male, and some who are have become too old to be called 'boys'.</li>
</ol>
<h2>Pay, Hours, And Respect</h2>
<p>If you're looking to become a paper courier, chances are it's because you can't get anything else. The pay is incredibly low, with an average of seven cents a paper <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>. Any other job in the USA has a minimum wage of $5.15 an hour, even making hamburgers.</p>
<p>We have set hours. My personal hours are deliver by 5:00 PM on weekdays (I get home from school at 4:00) and 7:30 AM on weekends, even though most people don't get up til past 9:00. Assuming you have no life, these hours are fine, but most of us <em>do</em> have a life. Even those who don't are late occasionally because the man who drops off the bundles is late.</p>
<p>Finally, we get no lenience or respect from the people we deliver to. If a paper is late, we get harassed for it, even though it's rarely ever the courier's fault. If the paper gets wet, we also get blamed. Is it our fault they have us put the papers in such stupid places?</p>
<h2>Mailboxes, Lawns, And Advertising</h2>
<p>One of the biggest conflicts involves mailboxes. The people will tell you to put the paper in their mailbox, so we do. Then what happens? A few days later either the postal workers will yell at <em>us</em> because it's illegal to put non-mail in a mailbox, or the route people complain to <em>us</em> that they aren't getting mail <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>.</p>
<p>Walking through lawns is a nice benefit, because most people don't care if you do it. I have found that if you were to cut through forty yards, you can save up to ten minutes route time. Unfortunately, not everyone likes you doing this, and not everyone is on your route.</p>
<p>The final legal benefit is free advertising. If you double as a babysitter or are trying to sell something, you can print out a letter to everyone and just insert it in the paper. I have never done so, but can see where this would come in handy.</p>
<h2>Scams And Illegal Benefits</h2>
<p>Route people, beware! Unlawful couriers may try the two following:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Overcharging. The average person does not know the weekly or monthly cost of getting a paper, so when collecting from them, Mr. Bad Courier will tell them an amount over the right one. So, know the price!</li>
<li value="2">Grand Theft Vacation. Yes, some couriers are in connection to the mob, or at least local gangs. When you go on vacation, the courier always knows, and often knows how to enter your home, too. Lock your doors, and don't tell them too much.</li>
</ol>
<h2>Tips</h2>
<p>On Christmas, most routers will give the courier a tip anywhere from one dollar to ten dollars; ten being rare, but it happens. If you make the people aware of your birthday, you can often get a tip then, too. The third way I've gotten tips is just for miscellaneous reasons: people just happy with your service, or people moving giving you a monetary goodbye. Tips are nice legal ways to get extra money.</p>
<h2>Equipment</h2>
<p>You will need a paper sack (either a single shoulder sack or double sack for both shoulders), and possibly pads for your route. Pads are for your shoulders, because younger couriers tend to have bony shoulders that will otherwise ache under the strain of forty pounds (it happens).</p>
<p>Bonus (i.e. optional) equipment would be plastic bags to place the papers in, or rubber bands to wrap them up in. Both are for convenience, allowing the courier to simply throw the paper at the house. Some routers may not want this, and it may actually take longer to do the route this way.</p>
<h2>Hazards And Annoyances</h2>
<p>Motorized vehicles tend to be a common problem with being a courier of any sort. You're in constant danger around automobiles, because you never know when they'll swerve on to the lawn and run you over. Or maybe they're just backing out of their driveways at excessive speeds. Sometimes a child imitates this behavior while driving a PowerWheel (tm). And of course we cannot forget the mobile domestic rocket launchers: lawnmowers and snow blowers. A hit from them is an unpleasant and smelly experience.</p>
<p>Most routes have one customer who is never happy. One minute late, and they call the cops on you. Or they say you don't collect often enough, but if you collect more often, they never have the money ready. Or they're never home to collect from. Worst of all was a man who would, everyday, complain he didn't get a paper the night before, and he wasn't even a subscriber!</p>
<p>Another hazard: Dogs. [ed.: enough said here, I think, as long as you can imagine an enthusiastic canine playing toyfully with a semi-pulped mess of paper.]</p>
<p>Sprinkler systems don't tend to be a problem, but if you don't hurry through them, the papers will get exceedingly wet. The same goes for rain, of course. Personally, I don't care. It's raining, your paper is wet. To have it be dry would go against the natural flow of nature and Chaos Theory.</p>
<p>Along with rain comes another precipitation: ice and snow. When you have to deliver fifty papers in twenty minutes you either have to be late or run on the ice and risk spinal relocation. I think you see where I'm going with this.</p>
<p>On Sundays, not only are the papers delivered in the morning, but they are up to four times normal size due to the hundreds of ads from Best Buy, Target, ShopKo, and other half-assed department stores. There is no way a kid of my stature, or less, can haul a hundred pounds for an hour. Even if they could, it wouldn't fit in <em>any</em> sized paper sack, so you're forced to make several journeys with a wagon or have your parents drive you around <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>.</p>
<p>The biggest pain in the backside is the complete score or so of hecklers that insult you for being "a stupid paper boy". Sadly, I agree with them, but what most couriers don't realize is this: the hecklers are nine times out of ten the people who don't have <em>any</em> job. So in fact, you can laugh off just about any comment they send your way.</p>
<p>A problem that has recently showed up, is that a paper company will constantly update its computer, and the printouts that come with it. This means that just when you finally figure out what "DS-49-Sch" means, they completely change it to "DD-22-27-MSc" so you need another year to get it right.</p>
<p>I hope this enlightened all the would-be couriers and routers out there. Respect your delivery person, and I even encourage you to tip them. The job they do is treacherous, poorly benefited, and under appreciated. Help make a difference in a young person's life.</p>
</div>
