---
layout:article
title: Madurodam, The Hague, Zuid-Holland, Netherlands, Earth
subtitle: The Netherlands In A Nutshell
author: Roel van der Meulen
factuality: Real
pgg_id: 9R4
pgg_date: 1996/07/14
article_date: 1996/07/14
alternative_title_1: Netherlands For Hitchhikers With A Very Tight Budget, The
alternative_title_2: Holland For Hitchhikers With A Very Tight Budget
alternative_title_3: Miniature Tourist Attractions In The Netherlands
alternative_title_4: Dutch Architecture Museum
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Sun, 1996-07-14 00:00
see_also: ["2R160", "6R30", "2R45"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"In that case go to Mini-Europe in Brussels, Belgium.","[2]":"It is a misconception to think that you have seen all of the Netherlands when you have only been to Madurodam.","[3]":"Inspired on a mini city in Beaconsfield, UK. Does it still exist?","[4]":"Examples from Delft, Amsterdam and many other cities.","[5]":"Dutch Rail = Nederlandse Spoorwegen (NS).","[6]":"Why this should be part of the typical Dutch landscape escapes me.","[7]":"The smallest coin of the whole world, I guess.","[8]":"Shuffling is extremely tiring."}
---
<div>
<p>A good way to start a tour through the Netherlands, unless you are "doing" Europe in four days <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>, is to visit Madurodam in the city of The Hague. It gives you a broad overview of what there is to see in this country and can help you get ideas where to go to during the following days of your visit to the Netherlands <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>.</p>
<p>So what is this "Madurodam"? Basically it is a miniature city with models of buildings, scale 1:25, which tries to give a picture of how a "typical" Dutch city has developed throughout the centuries <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>. The architectural museum that the place in fact is, was originally designed to preserve some of the old city and country scapes that are rapidly disappearing due to the demands of modern time. At the same time it tries to give a picture of what the results of these demands are. There is an old part of the city with models of structures dating back to medieval times: from typical houses and streets <a href="#footnotes.4" class="footnote-link">[4]</a> to churches and basilisks.</p>
<p>Moving through time you gradually emerge into the area of contemporary architecture where buildings and streets built only a few years ago are on display. Then come the industrial terrain, the offices, the harbour and such. Intersecting the many exhibits are the railways where models of all types of Dutch trains <a href="#footnotes.5" class="footnote-link">[5]</a> make realistic sounds while they move around. It's model train paradise! Of course, moving things attract most attention, for instance some ships in the harbour (one of which is on fire <a href="#footnotes.6" class="footnote-link">[6]</a>) and in the lock. There are, however, also some exhibits which only operate after you have inserted the smallest coin that exists in the Netherlands <a href="#footnotes.7" class="footnote-link">[7]</a>, the "dubbeltje" (10 cents). For the budget traveler: just wait till someone else puts one in. What then happens is most entertaining, especially for the many kids that visit the place. Now you know which locations to avoid.</p>
<p>Almost all miniatures, you must realize, have been picked out of their natural surroundings to be the building bricks of the Madurodam districts, or to stand by themselves if the designers thought they looked better that way. This sometimes gives an unrealistic and strange impression, so the best thing to do is to compare them with their counterparts in the Netherlands some time during the following days.</p>
<p>There are no explanatory signs on the exhibits, so you will have to buy a (not so expensive) tour guide. There are many pictures in it, so you don't really have to make any yourself. The guide gives you a tour along the exhibits, but I have to give you a warning: if you follow the route you will very soon experience an overkill of impressions. Therefore it is best to grab every opportunity to take a break and give your feet, eyes and brains some rest <a href="#footnotes.8" class="footnote-link">[8]</a>. You can also decide to follow a route that takes you in and out of the different quarters so you won't get saturated by seeing only, say, a lot of ancient buildings.</p>
<p>In the summer, due to the high latitude, it doesn't get dark until very late. This means you will miss the beautiful view of Madurodam by night, when a multitude of little lights illuminate the city. The opening hours are from 9:00 to 22:00, so to see this, a visit outside summertime is the only way.</p>
<p>On the side there is also an exhibition called Sand World, where statues have been sculpted out of compressed sand to represent the struggle of the Dutch against the sea through the ages. Ennobled sand castles are always impressive.</p>
<p>How to get there: from The Hague central station take tram 1 or 9. On any train station in the Netherlands you can buy a ticket that combines train, tram, and entrance tickets, which on itself is a bit less than twenty guilders, not very cheap. Talking of which, the restaurants inside are pretty expensive, so you better bring your own consumables.</p>
<p>From Madurodam you can easily continue to Scheveningen, where you find the casinos, the promenade, the pier, and the beach. This is a nice place to end your day out, with something to eat and a comfortable stroll.</p>
</div>
