---
layout:article
title: Reality Crossovers
subtitle: Deja Vu
author: Stephen Patterson
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 9S3
pgg_date: 1996/11/20
article_date: 1996/11/20
alternative_title_1: Crossovers In Reality
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Wed, 1996-11-20 01:00
see_also: ["6U13", "2R53"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Though it is also possible that you have already heard it."}
---
<div>
<p>Have you ever read anything, and thought, "Hey, just hang on a minute, I've already read this"?</p>
<p>Have you ever read anything, and thought, "Hey, just a fragging minute, I've already read this"? If you have, then you may have fallen victim to a reality crossover <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>The idea behind a reality crossover is simple: in writing any work of fiction, the author creates a new reality specifically to host the events which unfold throughout the book. When a reality crossover occurs, ideas, phrases or events from one reality "cross over" to another.</p>
<p>One incident that comes to mind is the famous "Titanic-Iceberg" accident, which was predicted by several authors. Curiously, one of these authors actually became a victim of the accident.</p>
<p>Another instance is the word "Caladan", in Frank Herbert's Dune, which has morphed itself into, among other things, "Caliban", the title of an Isaac Asimov novel, and "Taleban", a current Middle-East warring faction.</p>
<p>One reality crossover that can be witnessed every day is the selection of headlines in the tabloid press, including such classics as "Rock Star Ate My Hamster", and other items which bear no relevance to actuality, which have, however, been imported from other realities which are seemingly full of trivial news items.</p>
<p>Reality crossovers can also be explained from chaos theory, which can be simplified to the statement that "everything affects everything else," however, in accordance with Murphy's law, the nature of the effects cannot be predicted prior to them occurring.</p>
</div>
