---
layout:article
title: Food
subtitle: The Most Totally Boring Place In The Galaxy
author: Matt Baier
factuality: SemiReal
pgg_id: 9S5
pgg_date: 1997/01/13
article_date: 1997/01/13
alternative_title_1: 
alternative_title_2: 
alternative_title_3: 
alternative_title_4: 
submission_string: Submitted by admin on Mon, 1997-01-13 01:00
see_also: ["2S15", "1R1"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"I am one of those.","[2]":"Usually this will take you to Wanamaker.","[3]":"The gas station attendants are usually dumb enough to be happy, but smart enough to tell you where to go."}
---
<div>
<p>In Kansas there is a town sixty miles west of Kansas City whose inhabitants are either so mind-bogglingly dull, or who have re-evolved into such a different life form with such far greater patience, that they actually live there. It is called Topeka, and the following are suggestions for the hitchhiker on what to do if he finds himself in this town:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Leave. The locals are not of the kind type, and are annoyed by many things, the least of which is not out-of-state license plates. A reason for this could be because of their failure to follow such a basic instruction <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</li>
<li value="2">Stay. People stay in Topeka for the same reason that woolly mammoths stayed in the La Brea tar pits. If you find yourself immune to tar, and have a high tolerance for boredom, then this is the option for you. Hence, I bring you the basics of Topeka.</li>
</ol>
<h2>Food</h2>
<p>If you have a budget of around $10 a meal, you may eat at any of the major chain restaurants. For Tex-Mex, I recommend Annie's Santa Fe, in West Ridge Mall. This is a largish shopping market located on the outskirts of the town. For no readily apparent reason, at least none that the chronicler can grasp, this is prime real estate. The thought behind this is presumably "Twenty-five rich idiots can't all be wrong." This makes it a stumbling block to the Topekans who, as has been discussed earlier, have quite enough problems of their own.</p>
<p>Any restaurant that looks crowded is bound to be good, except Applebee's, which has its own special problems, and Bennigan's, a very uncrowded restaurant, whose Death by Chocolate is the best dessert in the town.</p>
<p>If any of this has made sense, prepare to lose the trail from which it has been derived. The streets of Topeka are, well, annoying. In order to find a place that's not on a major street, one has to follow numerous winding roads. A recent news broadcast also complained of the poor condition of these same streets. A good directional tip would be to find a car that looks like it knows where it's going and follow it <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>. If this doesn't work, find a gas station and ask the attendant for directions <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>. If you want to know where you are going, and don't want to ask for directions, I highly recommend not going to the town in the first place.</p>
</div>
