---
layout: "article"
title: "High School"
subtitle: "What It&apos;s Really Like"
author: "Miss Amber Brokaw"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "12R9"
permalink: "articles/12R9"
pgg_date: "1997/07/03"
article_date: "1997/07/03"
alternative_title_1: "School, High"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1997-07-03 00:00"
see_also:
  - 6R55
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "Freshmen (or first year students) are an important part of High School society. They are made fun of by Sophomores (2nd year) and Juniors (3rd) and often put through a terrible (for them) process called initiation by Seniors (final year, or years, of High School)."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "People often blame their childhood and High School days for crimes committed or lack of knowledge in later life."

---
<div>
<h2>Introduction</h2>
<p>For the student, high school is a place/period of time in which an older teenager learns everything they need to know about life as we know it. The teachers think learning takes place mostly in the class room, but in all actuality the opposite is true. It is shown that more learning takes place between classes, at lunch and after school while involved in extracurricular activities.</p>
<h2>Extracurricular Activities</h2>
<p>As mentioned above, learning takes place almost everywhere <em>but</em> the classroom. The proper usage of extracurricular activities is a highly useful thing. An extracurricular activity is an activity that provides a "stimulating" after-school learning experience that also provides a place for teenagers to go. Some popular extracurricular activities include, but are not limited to: sports, clubs, Bible study, counselling groups, dance, theatre and an often misunderstood group called the Marching Band.</p>
<h2>The Main Point Of All This</h2>
<p>Why do teenagers put themselves through this phase? Well, the answer is quite varied. Some go to learn, others to have fun, still yet others because they are forced to by an outside influence. High School can be a great experience, but is often explained by freshmen <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> as "Hell with hallways".</p>
<h2>Summary:</h2>
<p>High School is often used as an excuse for failure later in life <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> but nobody can say they never liked it. It makes up a whole 3-5 (or more) years of a human's life. We learn like above mentioned "Everything we need to know to about life as we know it". Often we forget how much we really learned sitting there at lunch wondering out loud what would happen if superman tried to reproduce or what our lunch was really made of.</p>
</div>
