---
layout: "article"
title: "Alley Rally &apos;94 - A Bowling Oddysey"
subtitle: "To Boldly Bowl Where No One Has Bowled Before"
author: "Steven William Baker"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "1R19"
permalink: "articles/1R19"
pgg_date: "1994/04/03"
article_date: "1994/04/03"
alternative_title_1: "Bowling on the Road"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sun, 1994-04-03 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2R20
  - 2S15
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>The sound was deafening. As I fled the scene, thunderous explosions of white (with red trim) were all around me. The vast, smoke-filled area was filled with commotion -- the crowds were shouting and jumping, the people were rushing aimlessly with reckless precision.</p>
<p>No, this was not a natural disaster, a riot, or even a European soccer match; this is a bowling alley. For ten days, I lived the life and experienced the motto: "I am, therefore I bowl."</p>
<p>This article describes and embellishes my sojourn across the midwest United States in search of the Perfect Bowl. Leaving from Michigan, I basically wandered westward until I hit Nebraska, moseyed south to Kansas, then stumbled eastward through Ohio, and finally back up to ol' Michigan.</p>
<h3>Before You Leave</h3>
<p>No matter how much time you plan for departure, it won't be enough. There are always at least two things you forgot to do before you left (and many times the next rest stop isn't for another 42 miles), and there are at least four mysterious things you forget to bring with you that will nag at your subconscious until you discover that you need one of them.</p>
<h3>Deciding on a City</h3>
<p>Sometimes it's fun just to pull into a town which sounds cool. When cruising from Illinois to Iowa, I saw a sign for a town called "Rock Island." Being a good Jethro Tull fan, I realized I had to bowl there.</p>
<p>Another thrill is finding cities with the same name as your home town. For example, although I didn't find too many Rochesters (I currently live and work in Rochester, Michigan), I did find two other Troys (I grew up in Troy, Michigan).</p>
<p>Other times, I had a target city in mind. Major cities like Kansas City, St. Louis, Omaha, Indianapolis, and Des Moines were on my list of cities to bowl at right from the start.</p>
<h3>How to Find a Bowling Alley</h3>
<p>OK, so you've decided to pull off the freeway and into an interesting- sounding city. Here are three handy methods to find bowling alleys:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Drive around until you find one. Pros: sheer joy and an intense burst of satisfaction when you stumble across one. Cons: you may never find one and run out of gas trying.</li>
<li value="2">Find a telephone book, write down some addresses and phone numbers, and then drive around until you find them. Pros: still fun when you find something on your own by following street signs and building numbers. Cons: not as adventurous as driving around using "the Force."</li>
<li value="3">Stop at a gas station and ask someone. Pros: you'll usually find bowling alleys the quickest this way. Cons: if you ask someone who doesn't know, the directions will invariably be horribly wrong and you'll be worse off than Method 1, above.</li>
</ol>
<p>The following are general notes and tid-bits about surviving a ten-day Alley Rally across America:</p>
<h3>Credit Cards</h3>
<p>Let's face it, these things are becoming a necessary evil in today's society. They're very handy but you can get yourself into all sorts of trouble if you aren't careful. By observing a few simple ideas, you can safely use credit cards to enhance and prolong your journey.</p>
<p>First, try to dedicate one credit card for each need (i.e., one for gasoline, one for lodging, etc.). This makes the bookkeeping much easier; you'll be able to track how much you have spent in a particular category and know how much you have left at your disposal.</p>
<p>Second, stick to the first rule! It's very easy, and very tempting, to waver from your resolutions and charge little bits here and there ("Aw, it's only fifteen bucks, what's that going to hurt?"). Trust me, it'll hurt more than you think.</p>
<p>Third, make sure you have the toll-free numbers to check your balances. Some cards have the number printed on the back, while others only have it on your monthly statement. From time to time you're going to forget how much you've spent so far, and this number will let you know if you're going to run into trouble.</p>
<h3>Cash</h3>
<p>Try to bring as much cash and travellers checks as possible. If you can use credit cards for lodging and gasoline then your cash is for bowling, food, and souvenirs.</p>
<p>Per bowling alley, figure:</p>
<pre>
          o $8 for a series (three games) - this should be an over-
            estimate, but if you bowl at a prime time, this might not
            even be enough
          o $10 for food at the grill (again, this should be plenty)
          o $10 for drinks at the bar (if you do more than that, then you
            should not plan on more than two or three alleys per day!)
</pre>
<p>Other expenses to consider:</p>
<blockquote>o Toll booth change (see below)<br>
o Food away from the alleys (breakfast, most likely)<br>
o Telephone calls, if you don't have a calling card thing o Coin-operated laundromats, if you don't pack a lot of clothes o Post cards and stamps, if you want to keep in touch with anyone</blockquote>
<h3>What to Pack</h3>
<p>There are certain things that one must pack for an Alley Rally, and if you plan on sleeping in your car, then additional items are required. At a minimum, pack the following:</p>
<pre>
          o Towel(s) - I brought three, just in case.
          o Bowling ball(s), bowling shoes, and any additional bowling gear
            you require (like those wrist guard things, etc.)
          o A watch or a clock.  If you go across the country, you're going
            to cover different time zones.  Try to keep track of what time
            it is, or you may either arrive at an alley too early in the
            morning or too late in the morning, depending on what time of
            the morning we're talking about.
          o Camera - those "disposable" cameras are great in the daylight,
            and you don't have to worry about anything; $12 for a Kodak
            FunSaver 35-mm 27 exposure with built-in flash and everything.
            (They don't take good long-range photos at night, however.)
          o Lots of cassettes or CD's to play in the car.  I brought about
            40 tapes and ended up playing them all at least twice.  You're
            going to be on the road a lot!
          o Notepads, notebooks, or something to take notes about the alleys
            you encounter.  (I brought a laptop computer along, and used it
            in the lounges to collect my notes and generally look "cool.")
          o At least one decent map of the area you plan to cover.  I got a
            good map of the United States at the local AAA office.  Sure,
            it's much more fun to just drive and discover what you come
            across, but at some point you're going to find yourself in a
            gasoline station at two in the morning asking the attendant,
            "What state is this, where in the state are we, and how do I get
            to Des Moines, Iowa?"
          o Sunglasses.
          o Bathroom stuff (soap, shampoo, toothbrush, etc.)  Don't forget
            anything or assume that a motel will have stuff there, because
            while most of them have soap, very few of the less expensive
            ones stock shampoo, and none sold toothbrushes (try gas
            stations if you need to buy one of those).
          o Aspirin or other pain relief; if you plan on hitting a lot of
            bowling alleys, and/or if you plan on covering a lot of miles
            each day, then you're going to be sore.
          o A few decks of cards, for when you need to wait around for a
            pair of open lanes or if you really want to make your highway
            driving experience an interesting one.
          o Clothes (plan on one outfit per day, but you can always just
            stop at a coin-operated laundromat somewhere and wash
            everything.)
          o Empty bags to put stuff in later.
</pre>
<p>If it's not too warm outside, fill a large cooler with ice and bring things like half-gallons of milk, orange juice, two-liters of soda pop, distilled water, etc. Keep this cooler in your trunk. This way you can bring along some boxes of cereal, a few spoons and bowls, and you've got your breakfast and snacks right there with you.</p>
<p>(NOTE: I tried to bring two gallons of ice cream along too, and was very happy I thought ahead to store each in its own plastic bag - they didn't last the first day of the trip. So, I ended up eating two gallons of ice cream in the lounge of the first alley I came across! The lesson I learned is: Don't bring ice cream on an Alley Rally unless you plan on touring either Antarctica, the Alaskan tundra, or Northern Canada.)</p>
<p>Other kinds of food you can pack:</p>
<blockquote>o Pop tarts<br>
o Corn chips, Nilla Wafers, and other munchies - great on the road o Breakfast bars (those Carnation things are pretty good)</blockquote>
<p>In addition, if you plan on sleeping in your vehicle, you'll probably need some additional gear:</p>
<blockquote>o Pillow(s)<br>
o Sleeping bag, blankets, et al.<br>
o More towels</blockquote>
<h3>Sleeping, Showers, Etc.</h3>
<p>While generally considered a useful activity in its own write, sleeping is often awkward at best in Alley Rallys. For economically-minded bowlers, rest stops are a sure thing, as long as you're also not into personal hygiene. Otherwise, as you travel along the highways, be sure to keep tabs on the lodging billboards for something inexpensive.</p>
<p>Along the way I came across Model 6's around $26, Super 8 Models for about $35, and Budgetel's for around $45 (these prices are after taxes are added). The bargains are further away from the major cities (a Model 6 in the middle of nowhere may cost you $25, whereas one just outside of St. Louis would run around $35 or more), and likewise try to avoid ones near airports.</p>
<p>If you're going for the rest stops, the ones along Interstate 80 in Northern Illinois were the best I came across. These were impressively organized and very spacious, with playgrounds for the kids and lots of tourist information for the family. The ones in southern Indiana along Interstate 70 were also very nice. Conversely, most of the rest stops in Iowa and Nebraska were not much more than covered bathrooms.</p>
<p>Regardless, you can always wash up and take care of business at any of these, and they all were mostly safe to sleep at. When choosing a site to sleep, try for a parking spot about three or four away from a lamp post. This way your car is still very well lit but without the direct attention- attracting light.</p>
<p>If you're really in a pinch for a place to crash (not literally, of course!) then try a subdivision of a decent-looking town. If you arrive moderately late, park inconspicuously near the end of a street somewhere, and head out again early in the morning, you won't have any problems at all.</p>
<p>The best places to shower and clean up on a non-motel Alley Rally are truck plazas. For instance, along Interstate 70 there are a bunch of places called Bobbers Auto/Truck Plaza. They have private showers, food, and gasoline. Make sure you brought your towel and bathroom stuff!</p>
<h3>Gasoline</h3>
<p>Besides the bowling, the most important thing in an Alley Rally is gasoline (but just hope that it is not as rare as in the Mad Max films, because at some point in your journey you'll probably feel as though you're in one). If you can swing it, dedicate one credit card for gasoline purchases -- you get a very handy souvenir receipt with all sorts of handy information for calculating your miles per gallon, miles per day, dollars per gallon, dollars per day, et al. This also frees up your cash for food and bowling expenses, which are going to be enough anyway.</p>
<h3>Toll Booths and Toll Ways</h3>
<p>Get a good road map of the regions you're going to cover and make note of where the toll-ways are. There's always a way around them, even though often times the gasoline you spend driving in circles trying to avoid the toll is many times the 40 to 50 cents you'd plunk into the toll booth. But heck, it's the principle of the thing to avoid paying those tolls!</p>
<h3>Fun Way to Not Fall Asleep on the Highway</h3>
<p>If you plan to cover a lot of distance, you're going to be driving a lot. Here are some fun ways to avoid becoming another statistic. Many of them involve counting or tracking something; this is a good exercise because you need to remember not only what number you've left off at, but also what it is you are counting in the first place.</p>
<pre>
          o Count how many out-of-state license plates you come across,
            keeping in mind what state you happen to be in at the moment.
            Try to remember what ones are new (plates from states you
            haven't seen before) and figure out if they've travelled farther
            from their home state than you have.
</pre>
<pre>
          o Put your car stereo in continual Scan mode.  As it cycles
            through the radio stations, try to identify which stations
            weren't there the last time through the scan.  For even more
            fun, try to tell when a station is no longer available.
</pre>
<pre>
          o Count the number of:
            - disabled automobiles off the side of the highway
            - motorists who are pulled over for speeding
            - police cars waiting to nail somebody for speeding
            - trucks you can pass during a given time interval, and then
              calculate your truck per time ratio (i.e., something like
              0.5 trucks per min.)
</pre>
<pre>
          o See if a mile is really as long as they claim it is: use your
            odometer to measure from one highway mile marker sign to the
            next, and see if its honestly one mile or if they're cheating
            you out of a little bit of real estate.
            (An alternative method is to drive as close to 60 MPH as
            possible and use your (digital) watch to check if it takes you
            exactly one minute to go from one highway mile marker to the
            next.)
</pre>
<h3>Weather</h3>
<p>Especially if you drive across different time zones, you're going to encounter different weather patterns daily. To this I say: Enjoy it! Worship the power of the sunshine, celebrate the ecstacy of the rain, dream into the soft, furry clouds, marvel at the mysteries of a wave of snow, cherish the openness of a clear blue sky.</p>
<p>Since you can't really do much about the weather, it certainly helps if you can develop a strong positive attitude to whatever nature brings along for you!</p>
<h3>Bowling Tips</h3>
<p>First, don't wear yourself out! Pace yourself for a lot of bowling. I averaged 4.5 bowling alleys per day with three games per alley, which is a lot of bowling. If you're not used to bowling a lot then be sure to take it easy until your body gets used to all the commotion.</p>
<p>(On the other hand, if your wrist hurts too much or that trick knee is starting to act up again, then take care of yourself first - those alleys will still be there in the morning!)</p>
<p>Second, take the time to work on the little things of your game that you didn't have the time for before. For instance, techniques like approach, delivery, follow-through, and trying to knock down <strong>all</strong> of the pins (those white wooden things at the end of the bowling lane) instead of most of them. Little things like that.</p>
<p>Third, enjoy the people around you. They're probably not going cross- country on a crazy Alley Rally - they're just out to the local bowling center for some fun with friends and family. Bowling near an energetic bunch can be a great experience, especially if they include their alley neighbors (i.e., you) in their festivities.</p>
<p>Fourth, each alley's grill, snack bar, and/or restaurant has its own specialty, something that they're proud of. Any place can sell you a hot dog; find what makes this alley's food services unique and sample a piece of their best.</p>
<h3>Computerized Scoring</h3>
<p>Personally, I hate the computerized scoring systems. It takes all the suspense and fun out of it when the things scores everything for you. But then again, I come from a warped background, largely because we have created so many bizarre ways of bowling (many of which require dice, calculators, hats, tokens, erasers, or playing pieces).</p>
<p>The computerized scoring systems are pretty handy if you just play regular bowling games, except they usually do not allow practice frames. If you bowl in a number of alleys then you will get to know how to work these computer things, because you'll sure come across a lot of them.</p>
<h3>Non-Bowling Tips</h3>
<p>Believe it or not, there <strong>is</strong> more to life than bowling (at least that's what someone told me once.) After a satisfying day of alley hunting, take the time to enjoy the night life your current locale has to offer. The big cities are a lot of fun (with a wide variety of tempting attractions from pubs to movie theatres to huge shopping malls), and their suburbs often have great downtowns of their own. While sometimes you'll want to just collapse in a motel room somewhere and sleep, the energy of exploring a new city is often very invigorating.</p>
<h3>Alley Summaries</h3>
<p>Now that we've discussed a little about surviving bowling on the road, let's review some of the alleys I came across. This list is by no means complete, as sometimes my note-taking skills suffered as a result of driving, bowling, and whatever else one might do when one is out on ones own across America for ten days.</p>
<h3>Troy Lanes</h3>
<p>1950 E. Square Lake Road, Troy, Michigan 48098; (810) 879-8122</p>
<pre>
Prices:            Regular Open Bowl ... $1.00
                   Fridays ... $0.94
Shoe Rental:       $1.00
Number of Lanes:   40 lanes
Computerized:      No
Food Specials:     clogged arteries, heartburn
                   $3.75 for hamburger/cheeseburger, fries, medium soda
Etc.:              Two pool tables and two electronic dart boards
                   This is our "regular" place every week.
</pre>
<h3>Rose Bowl Lanes</h3>
<p>2309 Franklin, Michigan City, Indiana; (219) 872-9930</p>
<pre>
Prices:            M-F 9am to 5pm ... $1.25
                   Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $1.60
Shoe Rental:       $0.75
Number of Lanes:   16 lanes
Computerized:      Yes
Food Specials:     Built-in restaurant/bar; soda pops $0.60
</pre>
<h3>Dunes Bowl</h3>
<p>Gary, Indiana; 938-5301</p>
<pre>
Prices:           $1.75 per game (at least on Friday evenings)
Shoe Rental:      Yes
Number of Lanes:  44 lanes
Computerized:     No
</pre>
<h3>River Rand Bowl</h3>
<p>191 N. River Rand, Des Plaines, Illinois 60016; (708) 299-1001</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F 9am to 5pm ... $1.75
                  Sundays 9am to noon ... $1.50
                  Otherwise: Adults $2.25, Juniors $1.75, Seniors $1.25
Shoe Rental:      $1.25 adults, $0.75 juniors/seniors
Number of Lanes:  36 lanes
Computerized:     No
Food Specials:    Cheeseburgers are very good here
</pre>
<h3>Town and Country Lanes</h3>
<p>3636 11th Street, Rock Island, Illinois 61201; (309) 788-9555</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F until 5pm ... $1.35
                  Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $1.85
Shoe Rental:      $1.00
Number of Lanes:  48 lanes
Computerized:     No
Etc.:             Neat wooden atmosphere; it appears like the alley is
                  divided into two halves from the entrance/lobby area.
</pre>
<h3>Family Fun Center</h3>
<p>4500 Blackhawk Road, Rock Island, IL 61201; 786-2700</p>
<pre>
Number of Lanes:  20 lanes
Computerized:     No
Etc.:             They have Junior leagues on Saturday Mornings in-season
</pre>
<h3>Milan Lanes</h3>
<p>2020 West 1st Street, Milan, Illinois; (309) 787-1117</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F before 6pm ... $1.00
                  Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $1.75
                  Students and Seniors ... $1.50
Shoe Rental:      $1.00
Number of Lanes:  32 lanes
Food Specials:    Rudy's Tacos, and the Hole in the Wall Lounge
                  Soda pop from vending machines is $0.60
Etc.:             They have Red Pin Bowling - solid red pins inserted into
                  the pin feeder units; if a red pin appears as head pin
                  and you get a strike, then you get a free game next time
                  (maximum limit of 5 per nite).
</pre>
<h3>Val Lanes Recreational Center</h3>
<p>100 Ashworth Road, West Des Moines, Iowa; 274-0493</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F 9am to 5pm ... $2.14 plus tax
                  Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $2.62 plus tax
Shoe Rental:      $1.67 plus tax
Number of Lanes:  36 lanes
Computerized:     AMF AccuScore w/cool graphical preview system which
                  suggests the best strategy to pick up the spare
Food Specials:    Soda pops for $0.85, $1.25, and $1.50; good pizza for
                  $3.50; nachos are $2.50
Etc.:             This place has a LaneWalker device which automatically
                  oils the lane about five feet into the garden, then it
                  retreats back, walks sideways to the next lane, and then
                  proceeds to oil it.  Continues down the whole alley until
                  the operator unplugs it.
</pre>
<h3>Des Moines Bowling Center</h3>
<p>10300 Hickman Road, Des Moines, Iowa 50322; 278-2442</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F 9am to 5pm ... $2.10 adults ($1.85 youth)
                  Evenings, Sundays, Holidays ... $2.45
Shoe Rental:      $1.50
Number of Lanes:  36 Brunswick lanes
Computerized:     No
Food Specials:    Soda pops for $0.80/$1.00; cheese dogs for $1.40
                  Check out Jamie Lea's ... they have subs, club
                  sandwiches, 1/4 lb. turkey/ham/roast beef/corned beef
                  and swiss sandwiches
</pre>
<h3>Leisure Lanes and Family Restaurant</h3>
<p>4811 L-Street, Omaha, Nebraska; 733-4800</p>
<pre>
Prices:           Adults ... $1.75, Juniors/Seniors ... $1.35
                  Bumper bowling ... $1.90
                  Flat rate of $10 per hour per lane
Shoe Rental:      $1.00
Number of Lanes:  36 AMF lanes
Computerized:     AMF AccuScore system
Extra Frames:     $0.25 each, added to the bill when you're done
Food Specials:    Soda pops for $0.99/$1.25/$1.50; their BLT sandwiches
                  are good ($2.75); hamburger $2.25, cheeseburger $2.60
</pre>
<h3>West Lanes</h3>
<p>151 North 72nd Street, Omaha, Nebraska; 556-3344</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F until 6pm ... $1.75
                  Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $2.18
Shoe Rental:      $1.00
Number of Lanes:  24 Brunswick lanes
Computerized:     AMF AccuScore system
</pre>
<h3>AMF/King Louie Northland</h3>
<p>217 N.E. Vivion Road, Kansas City, Missouri; (816) 454-BOWL</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F until 5:30pm ... $2.25
                  Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $2.60
                  Sometimes have specials on Sundays and Mondays
Number of Lanes:  32 brunswick AstroLines
Computerized:     Brunswick 2000 automatic scoring systems
Food Specials:    Soda pops for $0.95/$1.39; Tater tots are great for $0.95
                  Fish sandwich $2.05
Etc.:             7 pool tables, huge arcade room
</pre>
<h3>Gladstone Bowl</h3>
<p>300 N.W. 72nd Street, Gladstone, Missouri 64118; 436-2695</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F until 5pm ... $1.75
                  Sunday 9am to noon ... $1.10
                  Evenings, Weekends ... $2.25
Shoe Rental:      $1.25
Number of Lanes:  24 Brunswick AstroLines
Computerized:     No
Food Specials:    Sodas are $0.84/$0.94/$1.64; they have a lot of great
                  breakfast food (bacon/eggs, toast/jelly, etc.) as well
                  as classic snacks, sandwiches, etc.
</pre>
<h3>NKC Pro Bowl</h3>
<p>505 E. 18th Avenue, North Kansas City, Missouri; 221-8844</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F before 6pm ... $2.00
                  Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $2.50
Note:             Pre-pay policy if not a league player - the lanes shut
                  off when the games are completed
Shoe Rental:      $1.25
Number of Lanes:  48 Brunswick AstroLines
Computerized:     Brunswick 2000 scoring system
Food Specials:    Soda pops are $0.65/$1.00, incl. strawberry soda and RC
Etc.:             Huge arcade room; Bowler's Emporium Pro Shop; Palm
                  Beach Cantina; 11 pool tables; full restaurant-type grill
</pre>
<h3>AMF/King Louie Strike and Spare</h3>
<p>13001 Hwy. 40, Independence, Missouri 64055; 356-1900</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F before 2:30pm ... $2.25 plus tax
                  M-F between 2:30pm and 5:30pm ... $1.49 plus tax
                  Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $2.60 plus tax
                  Youth and Seniors ... $1.90 plus tax
Shoe Rental:      $1.50
Number of Lanes:  32 Brunswick lanes
Computerized:     AMF AccuScore with graphical shot preview
Etc.:             The house balls are color-coded by weight (a specific
                  color for each weight), and are stored together (thus,
                  all of the 14-pound balls are together).  Furthermore,
                  the grip sizes are marked (small, medium, large).
</pre>
<h3>Higginsville Bowl</h3>
<p>2105 Pine, Higginsville, Missouri; 584-2123</p>
<pre>
Number of Lanes:  6 Brunswick lanes
Computerized:     No
Etc.:             The proprietor claims that Higginsville Bowl is the
                  second oldest indoor bowling facility in America.  The
                  mechanical pin machines installed around 1956, and the
                  building itself is over 100 years old.
                  I found this place on the way to Confederate Park
                  memorial/tourist trap attraction (but never did end up
                  making it to the museum, however).
</pre>
<h3>West County Lanes</h3>
<p>15727 Manchester Road, Ellisville, Missouri 63011; 227-1469 (west of St. Louis)</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F 9am to 5pm ... $2.00
                  Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $2.50
Note:             Pre-pay policy if not a league player - the lanes shut
                  off when the games are completed
Shoe Rental:      $1.50
Number of Lanes:  24 Brunswick lanes
Computerized:     Brunswick 2000 AccuScore system
Food Specials:    Sodas are $1.00; the polish dogs are good ($1.50), and
                  the $5.25 pizzas come with a variety of toppings
</pre>
<h3>St. Clair Bowl</h3>
<p>5950 Old Collinsville Road, Illinois; 632-2400<br>
(east of St. Louis)</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F until 6pm ... $1.90 (Seniors ... $1.75)
                  Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $2.25 (Seniors ... $2.00)
                  Tuesday special from 1pm to 5pm ... $1.00
                  League bowlers special rate of $1.50 at all times
Shoe Rental:      $1.50
Number of Lanes:  50 Brunswick lanes
Computerized:     Brunswick 2000 AccuScore system
Food Specials:    Sodas are $0.60/$0.90; the chicken breast sandwich is
                  good ($1.85), and the cod fish sandwich is fine ($1.75)
Etc.:             Huge token-operated arcade room with prize tickets that
                  are cashed in at the prize counter for misc. junk
                  Features the Island Oasis lounge/restaurant upstairs
                  The alley is dark, and there's not a lot of seating
                  or lounge areas around the lanes
</pre>
<h3>Bel-Air Bowl</h3>
<p>1703 North Belt West, Belleville, Illinois 62223-5010; (618) 233-1703 (east of St. Louis)</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F before 6pm ... $1.85
                  Evenings, weekends, holidays ... $2.25
                  League bowlers ... $1.50 (junior league bowlers ... $1.00)
Number of Lanes:  24 Brunswick lanes
Computerized:     Brunswick AS-90 scoring system
Food Specials:    Sodas $0.65/$0.95; the mozzarella sticks are good ($3.75)
Etc.:             Moderate-sized arcade room
</pre>
<h3>Panorama Lanes</h3>
<p>200 South Belt West, Belleville, Illinois; 234-2511<br>
(east of St. Louis)</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-Sat until 6pm ... $1.75 (Seniors, Juniors ... $1.40)
                  Evenings, Sundays, Holidays ... $2.10
                    (Seniors, Juniors ... $1.75)
                  League bowlers ... $1.00
Shoe Rental:      $1.00
Number of Lanes:  32 AMF Sure-Pik lanes
Computerized:     No
Food Specials:    Panorama Service Bar has sodas for $0.65/$0.80/$1.00
                  The Arbor Restaurant features meat loaf, yankee pot
                  roast, fried chicken, mini-tacos, toasted ravioli, etc.
</pre>
<h3>Raceway Lanes</h3>
<p>4503 W. 16th Street, Speedway, Indiana 46222; (317) 241-2561</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F 9am to 6pm ... $1.39
                  Sat, Sun 10am to 6pm ... $1.59
                  Sun-Thurs 6pm to close ... $1.59
                  Other evenings ... $2.09
Shoe Rental:      $1.35
Number of Lanes:  48 AMF lanes
Computerized:     Brunswick 2000 scoring system
Food Specials:    OK Corral sells value meals (fish, chicken, bbq, 1/4 lb.
                  burgers, with fries and 16oz soda) for around $3.75
Etc.:             Keith Buther's Pro-Line Bowling Supply is the pro shop
</pre>
<h3>Sunset Bowl</h3>
<p>9525 Crawfordsville Road, Indianapolis, Indiana 46234; (317) 291-5333</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F before 5pm ... $1.60
                  Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $2.10
Shoe Rental:      $1.25
Number of Lanes:  16 AMF Sure-Pik lanes
Computerized:     Brunswick 2000 AS-90 scoring system
Food Specials:    Routine bar and grill-type facilities
Etc.:             Four pool tables; small arcade room
</pre>
<h3>Western Bowl</h3>
<p>6441 W. Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46241; (317) 247-4426 (I-465 + US 40/W. Washington exit)</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F 8:30am to 1:30pm ... $2.00
                  M-F 1:30pm to 5:30pm, and Sundays until 1pm ... $1.25
                  Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $2.40
Shoe Rental:      $1.50 (juniors $0.75)
Number of Lanes:  80 Brunswick AstroLine lanes
Computerized:     AMF AccuScore system
Extra Frames:     $0.25 each, added to the bill when you're done
Food Specials:    Soda pops are $0.90/$1.10/$1.45; mozzarella sticks $2.40
                  and the fish platter is good at $3.95
Etc.:             Kegler's Old 40 Corral is a cool restaurant/lounge; The
                  Arcade Round-Up is a large arcade room; 6 pool tables;
                  2 lounge areas and a meeting room.  Don Mitchell Pro Shop.
                  The front desk is like a hotel front counter, complete
                  with blue jackets and name plates.
</pre>
<h3>Expo Lanes</h3>
<p>I-465 and S. Emerson, Indianapolis, Indiana</p>
<pre>
Prices:           M-F until 1pm ... $2.00
                  M-F 1pm to 5:30pm, Sunday until 1pm ... $1.25
                  Evenings, Weekends, Holidays ... $2.40
Number of Lanes:  40 + 40 Brunswick lanes (back-to-back, split in half)
Computerized:     AMF AccuScore system
Extra Frames:     $0.25 each, added to the bill when you're done
Etc.:             The usual food stuff, and all of the extras you'd come
                  to expect from an 80-lane alley (arcade room, pool hall)
</pre>
<h3>Poelking Lanes South</h3>
<p>8871 Kingsridge Drive, Centerville, Ohio 45458; (513) 435-3855 (south of Dayton)</p>
<pre>
Prices:           Regular open ... $2.50, Holidays ... $2.50
                  Juniors M-Sat until 5pm ... $1.80
                  Seniors M-Sat until 5pm ... $1.20
                  Ladies Mon and Thurs from noon until 5pm ... $1.80
Shoe Rental:      $1.25
Number of Lanes:  52 Brunswick lanes
Computerized:     Brunswick 2000 scoring system
Food specials:    Soda pops for $0.70/$1.00; Ron's Pizza House has good
                  pizza, sandwiches, spaghetti, etc.
</pre>
<h3>Troy Bowl</h3>
<p>1530 McKaig Avenue, Troy, Ohio; (513) 339-3315<br>
(north of Dayton, south of Toledo)</p>
<pre>
Prices:           Daytime ... $1.85
                  Evenings (after 6pm) ... $2.00
Shoe Rental:      $0.75
Number of Lanes:  18 AMF lanes
Computerized:     AMF AccuScore system
Etc.:             They have a small deli-type counter for food and sodas
</pre>
<h3>Al-Mar Lanes</h3>
<p>1010 N. Main Street, Bowling Green, Ohio 43402; 352-4637</p>
<pre>
Prices:           Mon, Wed, Fri 11am to 5pm ... $1.25
                  Tues, Thurs 11am to 5pm ... $0.75
                  M-F after 5pm, Weekends ... $2.00
Shoe Rental:      $1.25
Number of Lanes:  16 Brunswick lanes
Computerized:     Brunswick 2000 scoring system
Etc.:             They have one pool table, and a standard bar/grill type
                  place for sodas and snacks
</pre>
</div>
