---
layout: "article"
title: "Car Talk"
subtitle: "National Public Radio Hits A New Peak In Interactive Silliness"
author: "Loren Haarsma"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "1R5"
permalink: "articles/1R5"
pgg_date: "1992/01/30"
article_date: "1992/01/30"
alternative_title_1: "Humor, Radio"
alternative_title_2: "Radio Humor"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1992-01-30 01:00"
see_also:
  - 2U3
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>"Today, General Motors recalled 25 thousand new cars. They don't know what's wrong with them, but they do say that they recall them." (-Dennis Miller)</p>
<p>In today's society, owning a car is a necessity. (Unless you happen to be poor, in which case it is just one of many necessities which become luxuries you can't afford.) So what do you do when your automobile stops working, or begins to make funny noises indicating that it will very soon stop working at a particularly inconvenient moment. There are two options.</p>
<p>First, you can take it to a mechanic. This option immediately poses problems too obvious and too numerous to list.</p>
<p>Second, you can try to fix it yourself. This option poses many other problems, among the worst of which are that you will be forced to think and -- even worse -- to do work.</p>
<p>But there is a way to avoid being impaled on the horns of this dilemma. Well, actually, it's more a way to forestall being impaled. OK, it's really just a way to procrastinate, but you might consider it anyway. It is this: Listen to the radio program, <em>Car Talk</em>.</p>
<p><em>Car Talk</em> is a call-in radio program in which the hosts, Click and Clack the Tappit Brothers, a.k.a. Tom and Ray Magliatzi, argue with each other, read letters from fans on the air, interrupt each other, rant and rave about lawyers, semi-drivers, gas grills, automotive corporate executives, and whatever else happens to annoy them, promote fictitious charitable causes, and, occasionally, answer questions which listeners phone in about their cars. You will probably never find another show in which the hosts take such great delight in listening to another person's problems, and then laughing about them.</p>
<p>Click and Clack are themselves mechanics who own and operate a garage. And since -- as they so often point out on their show -- everyone even remotely associated with the automotive industry is sleazy and not to be trusted, you should realize that any particular answer they give might be utterly fictitious and that they only sound like they know what they are talking about. In their defense, however, Click and Clack have quite a bit of experience and have spent a great deal of time and effort perfecting their trade. Therefore, they are very good at sounding like they know what they are talking about.</p>
<p>If you would like to become a regularly listener to <em>Car Talk</em>, this is what you should do: call or write to all of your local National Public Radio stations and ask them for a copy of their programming guide. Once you have done this, you should probably change your name, address, and telephone number to avoid being hit by requests for donations every month for the next ten years.</p>
<p>If none of the public radio stations in your area carry <em>Car Talk</em>, you should tell the programming directors to get in touch with the radio station WBUR in Boston. If none of the programming directors <em>want</em> to carry <em>Car Talk</em>, there are two methods of argument you can use with them, one of which is certain to work on any public radio employee anywhere in North America:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">
<em>Car Talk</em> will attract a large and loyal fan club of yupwardly-mobile family units who drive Volvos and Infinities and contribute to public radio. Or,</li>
<li value="2">
<em>Car Talk</em> brings back the glorious counter-culture days when everyone owned a V.W. and knew how to fix it themselves.</li>
</ol>
<p>If for some reason you would like to discuss an automotive or other problem with Click and Clack, you can call 800-323-9287; or you can write to: Car Talk, WBUR, 630 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Our Fair City, MA 02215. (No endorsement expressed or implied, void where prohibited by law.)</p>
</div>
