---
layout: "article"
title: "Classification Of Religions"
subtitle: "Classification Method For Religions"
author: "Warren Kurt vonRoeschlaub"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R10"
permalink: "articles/2R10"
pgg_date: "1992/06/09"
article_date: "1992/06/09"
alternative_title_1: "Religions, Classification Of"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1992-06-09 00:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Years ago scholars attempted to collect information on all the religions in the known galaxy. While the attempt itself proved useless, it did provide a system of classification for religions. To get a quick understanding of any given religion it is helpful to learn this simple classification method.</p>
<p>Each religion identifier consists of a string of numbers, letters, and hyphens for quickly locating certain attributes. I highly recommend all those writing articles about any religion to use this classification scheme so that the average person can find quickly exactly what the religion entails without the difficulty of reading the entire text. The scheme also offers itself to a good ordering for the text of any religion.</p>
<p>The first digit of the classification number represents the number of deities the religion has, followed by a letter indicating the type. Omit the letter if the first digit is 0.</p>
<pre>
         A) All powerful, all knowing benevolent
         B) All powerful, but one can usually pull pranks due to
            lack of all knowingness.
         C) All knowing, but who the hell really cares due to lack
            of all powerfulness.
         D) Neither all knowing nor all powerful, but just kind of there.
         E-H) Same as above, but malevolent
         I) Whoever happens to be leader of the people at the time
         J) Everything and everybody is part of the god
         K) Everything and everybody, except for people members of
            the religion don't like, is part of god
         L) God is a head of lettuce named Ralph
</pre>
<p>The next digit represents what is expected after death by the following chart:</p>
<ol>
<li value="0">Everybody goes to a nice place</li>
<li value="1">Members of the religion go to a nice place, everybody else goes to an unpleasant place</li>
<li value="2">Members of the religion go to an unpleasant place, everybody else goes to a nice place</li>
<li value="3">Everybody goes to an unpleasant place</li>
<li value="4">Nobody goes anywhere</li>
<li value="5">Really bad people are forced to work in all night convenience stores in New Jersey</li>
<li value="6">Everybody is reincarnated</li>
<li value="7">Only people who deserve punishment are reincarnated</li>
</ol>
<p>The letter immediately following that represents the organization of the religion. A representing very organized, Z representing chaos. Follow this by a hyphen to make it easier to find the next section.</p>
<p>The next number represents the percentage of members that are named "Bubba." Do this on a scale from 0 to 9, with 0 meaning that nobody is named Bubba and 9 meaning that everyone is named Bubba. Southern Baptists are rated a 5 and the First Congregational Church of Bubba is a 9.</p>
<p>The next letter indicates how policy is decided, if no letter is listed then there is no policy.</p>
<pre>
         A) Handed down from a single source
         B) Voted upon by a collection of elders
         C) Voted upon by everybody
         D) Chosen by a random number generator
         E) Determined by careful computer analysis
         F) Determined by combatants representing each view playing
            Super Mario Brothers
         Z) Nobody has ever tried to change the policy, so nobody
            knows just yet
</pre>
<p>Then follows a digit representing the number of ways one can spell the name of the religion.</p>
<p>The next letter represents the place where the religion holds its meetings:</p>
<pre>
         A) No meetings
         B) A building set aside for the purpose
         C) A building which is also the gym for the local high school
         D) Outside
         E) In an airport or bus terminal
         F) In a submarine
         G) In a graveyard or mausoleum
         F) In a bathtub or jacuzzi
</pre>
<p>If ever the standards to any of these above constraints are unknown, the use of a question mark is preferred.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<p>Atheism: 04Z-11A<br>
Buddhism: 1J7M-2Z2B<br>
Calvinism: 1A1B-0B1B<br>
Catholicism: 1A1A-1A1B<br>
Hare Krishna: 1J7C-3A4E<br>
Episcopalianism: 1??M-0B1B <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

