---
layout: "article"
title: "Goedel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid"
subtitle: "The Hitchhiker&apos;s Choice Of Books For Killing Time In Spaceports"
author: "Rickard Andersson"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R108"
permalink: "articles/2R108"
pgg_date: "1994/07/14"
article_date: "1994/07/14"
alternative_title_1: "Goedel"
alternative_title_2: "Escher"
alternative_title_3: "Bach"
alternative_title_4: "Book: Goedel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid"
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1994-07-14 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2R110
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>If you're going to carry around one book when hitchhiking through the known universe (and probably in the unknown parts too), one good choice is <em>Goedel, Escher, Bach: an Eternal Golden Braid</em> by Douglas R. Hofstadter. It is a great book that takes the reader through a lot of interesting ideas and brings new light on many things. The lifetime creations of Goedel, Escher, and Bach are the string through the book. And there are a number of dialogues with the characters of Achilles, the Tortoise, and some of their friends. This must be a hitchhiker's first choice of book for killing time (and small furry creatures) in spaceports.</p>
<p>To describe the book is not a easy task. I will just mention some of the things that are discussed and explained in it, and hopefully you will get the hang of it.</p>
<ul>
<li>Artificial Intelligence and philosophical ideas</li>
<li>Many pictures by M. C. Escher and the techniques behind them</li>
<li>Computer models and the Babbage Engine</li>
<li>DNA-structures and biochemistry</li>
<li>Harmony and fractals</li>
<li>Formal logic and (in)computability</li>
<li>ZEN and a lot of Koans</li>
<li>Pattern recognition and perceptions</li>
<li>Cosmic views and the continuum hypothesis</li>
<li>Description of Turing and his problem</li>
<li>Randomness and set theory</li>
<li>Cognitive science</li>
<li>And of course, musical themes by Bach and how to interpret them</li>
</ul>
<p>All these things, and a lot more, are weaved together to a very interesting and quite heavy book. It's a sure bet if you want something to read again and again. It will make all the years waiting for a spaceship seem like a short passage of time (and space).</p>
<p>This book is entitled to:</p>
<blockquote>:-) :-) :-) :-) :-)</blockquote>
<p>(5 Smileys, in a scale from one to five.)</p>
</div>
