---
layout: "article"
title: "Dietary Bachelorisms"
subtitle: "Male Tendancies Of The Culinary Kind"
author: "Alexander Lachlan McLintock"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R158"
permalink: "articles/2R158"
pgg_date: "1994/09/09"
article_date: "1994/09/09"
alternative_title_1: "Mrs. Beaton&apos;s Everyday Cookery"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1994-09-09 00:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>The males of any species without permanent mates develop strange dietary habits. Among some bachelors of Hertfordshire, UK, Earth I have found the following trends. Bachelors mostly cannot stand to cook. They will take every opportunity to eat meals cooked by other people. This means that they will try to live off the meals provided by their employers' canteens. One sad case regularly buys pizza once a week and keeps half of it in the fridge for tomorrow's meal! Of course, the British youth of today can survive eating nothing other than lager and chicken vindaloo. Rumours of men able to live off nothing more solid that Guinness are to be taken with sceptism.</p>
<p>There are exceptions to every rule. A traditional gift to young men (and women) is "Mrs Beaton's Everyday Cookery." This is an invaluable tome which goes through almost everything the kitchen DIY enthusiast might need to know. It can tell you about knives, soups, roasting a chicken, making a bread sauce, tossing a salad, and what drink to serve. Unfortunately this book avoids cookery from the more exotic places around the world - squeezing them into a few pages near the end. You can tell that this book was not directed towards males because it continually refers to "housewives" whose duty is to be in the kitchen. Well, it was written in 1963.</p>
<p>Those bachelors who do cook often practice one receipe to the detriment to all others. In my case that is chilli con carne. See my forthcoming article on AlexMC's chilli. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

