---
layout: "article"
title: "Watermelon Rituals"
subtitle: "Another Bizarre Watermelon Ritual, This Time From The Antipodes"
author: "David McGregor Squire"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R17"
permalink: "articles/2R17"
pgg_date: "1992/12/22"
article_date: "1992/12/22"
alternative_title_1: "University Of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, Earth"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1992-12-22 01:00"
see_also:
  - 2S11
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Here is another ritualistic use of Watermelons, also practiced on Earth, albeit "downunder." But first, some background.</p>
<p>At Melbourne University (Melbourne, Victoria, Australia), there are several residential colleges. These colleges play sport against each other. Now, this serves several purposes. First, there are those members of the college who enjoy the playing the sport involved. For them, the sport is an end in itself. Second, there are those who wish to use the sport as a means of being noticed (by the opposite sex, the same sex, or perhaps even the Master). These sorts of things are no doubt much the same the world over.</p>
<p>The most important reason for the playing of sport, however, is that it gives the non-participating members of the colleges involved the opportunity to dress up in their college's colors and scream abuse at each other - immense fun. This activity can be most agreeably combined with - ALCOHOL.</p>
<p>This behavior reaches its pinnacle on Men's Rowing Day. The rowing takes place on the Yarra River in the center of Melbourne. It is compulsory (almost) for all members of the rowing colleges to lash all lectures, pracs, etc. for the day, dress up, put on face paint etc. in college colors, assemble on the banks of the river, sing songs, and get mind-buggeringly drunk.</p>
<p>One college, of which I am a member (and have been for years), is called Queen's. Queen's is a puzzle to the other colleges, who amuse themselves by trying to get the members of other colleges wet, and attempting to drown out the other's songs, perhaps even by (shudder) throwing things at each other. A couple of years ago, Queen's decided to cut out the middle man and stuff themselves up, thus assuring themselves of the title "Messiest College on the Crescent." This is where (finally) the watermelons come in.</p>
<p>Someone from Queen's brought a watermelon to the rowing. It was opened (presumably with a knife). So far so normal. The pieces were then distributed amongst various drunken Queener's (residents of Queen's). Now, no-one is exactly sure why what happened next happened. The pieces were head-butted. There ensued an orgastic frenzy of melon-butting, and the air was filled with a fine red mist of melon juice. Melon segments were enthusiastically smashed over peoples heads by their mates, and the red juice covered their faces and matted their hair. This single-melon incident spawned the ritual that now takes place.</p>
<p>Trailer-loads of watermelons are procured by senior members of Queen's and delivered to the river early on Men's Rowing Day. At intervals throughout the day, the Melon-Butting Ritual takes place. Melons are broken open and the pieces solemnly distributed. Freshmen allow the senior members of College to have the biggest, juiciest pieces. The Melon-Butters (mostly male) form orderly lines, and the President of the College gives the command: "Queener's - Butt your melons." Each Melon-Butter slams his melon piece onto the top of his head in unison, and melon juice sprays magnificently over the nearest spectators. The lines then break up and people hold the remnants of their melon for others to butt. This is all done with great enthusiasm and evident enjoyment.</p>
<p>The biggest, toughest bloke in a given year may them perform the most impressive melon-ritual -- the butting open of a whole, uncut, watermelon. He needs to have a hard head and a strong neck, and to be absolutely pissed out of his mind.</p>
<p>The students of other colleges simply stare in disbelief. They have no comeback. How can you abuse a bunch of people who do <strong>that</strong> to themselves?</p>
</div>
