---
layout: "article"
title: "Harmon, Jonathan David"
subtitle: "I Wrote This In My Spare Time"
author: "Jonathan David Harmon"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R175"
permalink: "articles/2R175"
pgg_date: "1995/01/241996/10/08"
article_date: "1995/01/24, 1996/10/08"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 2010-10-21 15:59"
see_also:
  - 2R162
  - 2R163
  - 2R177
  - 2R182
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Jonathan David Harmon began his existence as a legally defined human on the morning of January 24th, 1975, in the then-thriving town of Flint, Michigan, USA, Earth. His parents were (and, in fact, still are) Hugh James Harmon, who shortly thereafter took a job at General Motors (which he still has) to support his family; and Margaret Jo Harmon, formerly Margaret Jo Kapla, who shortly thereafter (on a geological scale) took a job as a teller at a local bank to help support the family, progressing through the ranks only to have her department phased out, and thus becoming a teller once more. He had, at the time, one sister, Elizabeth Anne Harmon, who was (and also still is) four years his elder. She is currently working as a chemical engineer at Motorola in Austin, Texas. He now also has a younger sister, Laura Marie Harmon, who is presently in her freshman year of college at Central Michigan University, and plans to pursue a degree in something some day, although she is not 100% certain exactly what that something is (the current focus is history education).</p>
<p>Jon (as he prefers to be called) lived most of his life on the outskirts of Clio, Michigan, USA, Earth. Because he was so far on the outskirts of Clio (far enough to cross several European countries), he often refers to himself as a booneyman, meaning that he lived "in the boonies," or, as he puts it, Booneyland. His latest version of Booneyland can be found at "<a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130206000724/http://pace1.cts.mtu.edu:8080/~jharmon">http://pace1.cts.mtu.edu:8080/~jharmon</a>" on the World Wide Web, an amazing service which he expounds the benefits of whenever he can remember exactly what "expound" means.</p>
<p>Besides spending unreasonable amounts of time on Project Galactic Guide, for which he is a founding member and namer of the Guaranteed Articles Group (GAG), Jon tries to ensure that he never has free time, a practice which, coupled with his habit of procrastination, has caused him much stress throughout his life. To meet this goal, he became editor in chief of his campus' daily paper, the Michigan Tech Daily Bull, and helped bring it online (<a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130206000724/http://www.hu.mtu.edu/~bull2/">http://www.hu.mtu.edu/~bull2/</a>). He also plays on his hall broom ball team, a sport in which cold college students slide around on ice trying to cause a small rubber ball to enter the opposing team's net by smacking each other with brooms wrapped in duct tape. Jon is also co-host for an 80's radio show, "Reagan Radio". In the little free time all this leaves him, Jon enjoys playing cheesy games on computers (things along the lines of Tetris and Freecell -- everything else bores him), exploring the Web, pining away about his "one true love" (who does not agree with this definition), watching hockey, writing and reading fiction, playing Magic (he was roped in by a friend) and the standard role-playing games it is usually found with, learning Tae Kwon Do (in which he has only progressed to the yellow stripe faze, and hasn't made it back to since), and, if he can get the money for a drum set, playing with and writing songs for his band-to-be, the Naked Patriots.</p>
<p>As far as his actual education goes, Jon is a biological sciences major at Michigan Technological University, focusing on molecular biology. He started out as a chemical engineering major, but soon discovered that it wasn't what he wanted to spend his entire life doing. If all goes well, Jon will graduate with honors from Tech in February of 1997, after a total of slightly less than four years, then move on to a more biology-oriented school to pursue his PhD.</p>
<p>Jon can easily be reached via email at <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130206000724/mailto:jharmon@mtu.edu">jharmon@mtu.edu</a>. Many of his free moments are spent surfing the Web or writing on a word processor, so email is often replied to immediately.</p>
</div>
