---
layout: "article"
title: "Fourqueux, Yvelines, France, Earth"
subtitle: "How To Stand Paris - Escape To Fourqueux!"
author: "Goran C. (not available on internet)"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R203"
permalink: "articles/2R203"
pgg_date: "1994/07/01"
article_date: "1994/07/01"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1994-07-01 00:00"
see_also:
  - 1R1
  - 2R204
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>You'll be walking up the hill, in a good mood.</p>
<p>Fourqueux.</p>
<p>It is pronounced Foo-Urk-Uh, in the local accent, I figured out, and it lies on top of the hill.</p>
<p>It is a really nice place to take a rest after having been in Paris for some time. It is completely different: tiny, friendly natives, cheap beer, and almost no traffic. There is very little risk for mugging as well.</p>
<p>The reason why it hasn't been invaded by enormous motorways and other civilization utterings, is that not very many people know about it.</p>
<p>There is absolutely no reason to visit this place.</p>
<p>No famous castle, no famous king, nor actor, nor general, nor anyone famous ever lived here. It is a completely white spot on the tourist maps, with no big way leading in nor out of the town. The only place to avoid is in a distant part of the town, the golf-court.</p>
<p>Fourqueux lies on top of a hill, some twenty kilometers west of the center of Paris, just by St.Germain-en-Laye. Use the R.E.R. - the HiSpeed SubWay - line A, and get off at the end-station.</p>
<p>There are no signs to get to this infinitely small place, so ask a native. (Even the inhabitants of the neighbouring town don't know, so you might have to ask a few before you get there....) Basically it is just to go south, cross the RN13 (highway) and you're on the road. Just follow this road, up the big, big hill, and there it is!</p>
<p>Where not to go:</p>
<blockquote>Golf de Fourqueux.</blockquote>
<p>How to recognise it:</p>
<blockquote>Plenty of Jaguars, BMWs, Mercedes, and cars of other exclusive brands circulate in that direction. This is the place where the <em>really</em> rich parisians go to spend their cozy evenings.</blockquote>
<p>The places to go to:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">The Forest
<p>A place where loads and loads of Hitchhikers have found some good hours of relaxation, some meeting with fellow hitchhikers, and some acquiring well-needed sleep (you can sleep like a log).</p>
<p>How to recognise it:</p>
<p>You won't see the forest for all trees.... It is on the very top of the hill - prepare for some really breath-taking sunsets!</p>
</li>
<li value="2">The Brittany / Cafe de la Croix Rouge
<p>The local waterholes - excellent places to go for a round of Petanque (boule) and a good chat with the natives. Recommended - as well for the low price.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<pre>
Food:
          l'Arab-du-Coin - The Arab of the corner
</pre>
<blockquote>As does <em>every</em> village/town in the country, Fourqueux has its set of arabs (traditionally) with shops open 7 days - almost all around the clock.
<p>It is slightly more expensive than the Monoprix (supermarket), but the service is excellent!</p>
</blockquote>
</div>
