---
layout: "article"
title: "Mars, Composition Of"
subtitle: "I Wouldn&apos;t Want To Live There, But It&apos;s Quite Tasty"
author: "Daniel A. Bowman"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R34"
permalink: "articles/2R34"
pgg_date: "1993/06/21"
article_date: "1993/06/21"
alternative_title_1: "Composition Of Mars"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1993-06-21 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2S20
  - 2U17
  - 2R35
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>The atmosphere of the planet Mars is 95.3% carbon dioxide, 2.7% nitrogen, and 1.6% argon. The rest is oxygen, carbon monoxide, water vapor, and other gases. Mars has two polar ice caps of water with a thin covering of dry ice. Temperatures at the poles in the winter can be as low as -127 degrees Celsius. Carbon dioxide from the atmosphere can actually freeze and fall to the ground like snow. At best, the temperature on the equator is ten degrees Celsius.</p>
<p>Surprisingly, there are many signs of water erosion on the surface, as if caused by immense flash floods. The most likely explanation concerns the fact that Mars probably has subsurface ice and permafrost. It is possible that volcanic activity could melt this ice. The surface rock would then crash into the newly formed pool of water. This in turn would cause the water to burst onto the surface, creating a flash flood. However, the atmospheric pressure is so low that water rapidly boils away, leaving nothing behind but a scarred surface. Water is able to remain on the poles only because of the low temperature. The two types of rock known to be present on Mars are basaltic and iron oxides. Little else is known about the planet Mars.</p>
<p>The Mars (TM) candy bar is manufactured by Mars, Inc. and distributed by the M&amp;M/Mars Company. These delightful bars are composed of "Crunchy Almonds, Caramel, &amp; Nougat In Chocolate." The first question to come to a typical person's mind at this point is "What the hell is 'nougat' and do I really want to eat it?". It is assumed that the nougat is the white stuff mixed in with the crunchy almonds and caramel inside the chocolate, but one can never be too sure. It is best to just eat the candy bar and not think about it.</p>
<p>At any rate, the ingredients, according to the wrapper, are as follows:</p>
<blockquote>Milk Chocolate, Almonds, Corn Syrup, Sugar, Partially Hydrogenated Soybean Oil, Milk, Skim Milk, Butter, Lactose, Salt, Egg Whites, Soy Protein, and Artificial Flavor.</blockquote>
<p>It should also be noted that, again according to the wrapper, milk chocolate contains:</p>
<blockquote>Sugar, Sweetened Condensed Milk, Cocoa Butter, Chocolate, Soy Lecithin, and Vanillin, an artificial flavor.</blockquote>
<p>And in case you were wondering, "Sweetened Condensed Milk" is made of milk and lactose.</p>
<p>Bibliography:</p>
<blockquote>Kaufman, William J. III, <em>Planets and Moons</em> (1979)
<p>Tanaka, Kenneth L., "Mars," Grolier's Electronic Academic American Encyclopedia (1993)</p>
<p>M&amp;M/Mars Company, Mars Almond Bar Wrapper (1993)</p>
</blockquote>
</div>
