---
layout: "article"
title: "Technical University Of Berlin, Berlin, Germany, Earth"
subtitle: "Spending Your Best Years At A Place That Doesn&apos;t Deserve It"
author: "Sven Muencheberg"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R36"
permalink: "articles/2R36"
pgg_date: "1993/06/09"
article_date: "1993/06/09"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1993-06-09 00:00"
see_also:
  - 1R1
  - 2R6
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>The Technical University of Berlin (TUB) was recently ranked the 7th worst university in Germany. The TUB is also one of the ten largest universities in Germany. The coexistence of these facts could be explained by one of the following reasons :</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Students don't care about the quality of their education.</li>
<li value="2">Students don't care about rankings.</li>
<li value="3">Students don't care about anything.</li>
</ol>
<p>Answer three is the most possible selection, because thinking about the studying conditions at German universities is regarded as extremely dangerous to your mental health.</p>
<p>Responsible for this (as well as for most of our problems which won't be discussed here) is, of course, money. Since the end of the '70's (meant are the 1970's, but due to the short life span of humans no living person really remembers what the 1870's (or 1770's...) were like, thus we can save these two digits) the number of students grew enormously, while the financial and material equipment of the universities remained practically unchanged.</p>
<p>Today the universities are so crowded that two students have to share one seat; well, they are not really sitting on top of each other, that's just to illustrate the numbers.</p>
<p>The Big Strike of '88:</p>
<p>Due to this fact, many students were unhappy and in the autumn of 1988 the TUB students went on strike. You may ask: "Why should anybody care if people who don't produce anything go on strike?" But the majority of students were too busy being creative strikers to notice, while some didn't dare ask such a heretical question, and the rest weren't convinced of the whole thing anyway.</p>
<p>So, they went on with demonstrations and meetings until the end of the winter term, in February 1989. When there were no more lectures to stay away from, they couldn't keep on striking and the whole affair died quietly.</p>
<p>The year 1989 was then renamed into 1988b, so they could forever refer to the "Big Strike of 88."</p>
<p>The Situation Today:</p>
<p>Like it was said before, nothing changed (well, not really nothing, but nothing that is worth mentioning here). The TUB grew and grew, and has recently reached the 40,000 students mark. The male/female ratio is 2:1 (overall), but in some divisions, especially engineering and other technical disciplines the ratio leaps up to 16:1!</p>
<p>BEWARE FEMALE HITCHHIKERS! Don't wear short skirts or high heels if you visit one of these divisions, except if you like to receive the same attention the earth population would pay to an alien invasion.</p>
<p>Remember, when the TUB was founded in 1879 the ratio was infinite to one, so not everything got worse, and if a male student knows where the biologists or the elementary school teachers have their parties, he can get through quite well.</p>
<p>TUBSAT:</p>
<p>A really remarkable thing is the TUBSAT-A, the university's own satellite (you'll never guess what the abbreviation stands for). It was carried to orbit with the ERS-1 launch in '91, where it was used as ballast. Right now it is used as ballast for the aerospace students, who have to calculate its position. By watching the satellite's flight path you can also prove that Newton's law of gravity is right, if your head hitting the table after your 10th beer isn't proof enough to you.</p>
<p>Anyway, the little sputnik (yes, it makes beep noises) will complete its 10,000th revolution soon and in September '93 the second TUBSAT, TUBSAT-B, will be launched with a Russian rocket (boy, the times are changin').</p>
</div>
