---
layout: "article"
title: "Tourists"
subtitle: "How To Behave In Foreign Places"
author: "Michael Bleyer"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R37"
permalink: "articles/2R37"
pgg_date: "1993/05/06"
article_date: "1993/05/06"
alternative_title_1: "Travel"
alternative_title_2: "Sightseeing"
alternative_title_3: "Behaving In Foreign Places"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1993-05-06 00:00"
see_also:
  - 1R10
  - 2R9
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Being one of the worst habits of modern societies, tourism is something you don't want to be identified with. After all, no one in his right mind would admit to spending lots of money, travelling around the galaxy to other places just to find out they are five times more boring than home (which they are never really), or, which is even worse, five times better than home (realizing what a dump they lived in the past 30 years). No way. People are not that stupid. Well, they are somewhat, but not <em>that</em> much.</p>
<p>If you belong to the latter kind, here are some hints on avoiding to get recognized as a tourist, which is the only way to get in touch with the local scene and really get to know the place, enabling you to find out if the place is actually that good or bad and feel real shitty for a change (see above). Enjoy the feeling while it lasts.</p>
<p>Your major goal will be to get as close to the locals as possible, and as far away from the other "typical" tourists, which you are not of course, since you're an exception, which you are, because you want to have some real fun on this trip since that is precisely what you came for.</p>
<p>Some main hints to start with:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Avoid people with cameras and/or hawaii shirts, especially if they come in larger groups, which is not really difficult, since they usually do.</li>
<li value="2">Buy the best tourist guide book known and avoid all the places it mentions as definitely worth a visit. In fact, avoid all places it mentions at all.</li>
<li value="3">Follow people that do not talk in the local language, because it's most likely locals trying to disguise themselves or making fun of tourists.</li>
</ol>
<p>Finding your way around:</p>
<p>Never ask anyone for directions. If you do, you will probably be sent to the rubbish dump (for the sheer fun of it, or because it's actually an interesting experience), or the airport where you just came from. When asking a tourist, you risk meeting someone from your hometown, which in most cases is highly embarrassing, so we'll advise you not to take any chances here. So use your intuition to get to wherever you think your presence is so utterly needed, just to find out that having finally arrived at some location, somehow you forgot why you wanted to be there (this is a most adventurous and fun technique, and hey - as a tough hitchhiker, you don't want to miss that extra bit of excitement).</p>
<p>Weather:</p>
<p>Adjusting yourself to the weather is quite easy, for there are two simple rules to follow. If the weather is awesome, don't go down to the beach; all the tourists will be there. Go shopping. The hotter and stickier the air, the better to go shopping. This will give you an idea of what a walk through the Sahara desert feels like, only with the Sahara being somewhat more quiet and calm, besides some live adventures to tell at home.</p>
<p>If the weather is bad, go down to the beach; you'll have it all to yourself since the other tourists will definitely be shopping for three reasons. First, running around in a crowded city is less stressful at a cool temperature. Second, they've been at the beach for so long now, time for some shopping. Third, the beach is not really nice during bad weather, and fourth, "all the others are here too, it <em>must</em> be good!".</p>
<p>If the weather has been good or bad several days in a row before it changes, the rules are even more true, for tourists are simple-minded people and a more obvious change of weather will make their decisions easier.</p>
<p>Foreign Language(s):</p>
<p>If you can't speak one, or speak so bad that you are easily recognized, then don't. Not at all. Don't even try to. If you do, prices in the nearby shops and marketstands will immediately triple, and people with hats and long dark coats will try to sell you real gold watches ("stolen from the rich") or homegrown Ganja ("it's all natural"). Instead, try to use gestures to communicate (pretend you're too cool to talk at the moment). If you actually speak well enough to pass as a local, don't say a word either. The result of trying to make an impression is being immediately surrounded by tourists who ask for directions and steal your soul with little gadgets called cameras.</p>
<p>Sightseeing Tours:</p>
<p>Definitely skip this. It's a rip-off anyway, and all you'll be learning about are things like: how many stairs all the churchtowers in town have; with the weather being so terrific it would be a good idea to go down to the beach after the tour; that the city had been a really nice and prosperous place several hundred years ago, which makes it a real pity that you could not have seen it back then. And to top it off, you'll be told all this by some young female student from your home country, who happens to be doing this only for monetary reasons and not being a local at all, which explains why she speaks your language so well in the first place.</p>
<p>Enjoying Yourself:</p>
<p>In the evening hours, find some people who you definitely know are locals that look like they are in a party mood and follow them to their usual hangout. If you travel by car, look for local number plates, but don't be fooled by hired cars. Do not even try to get a taxi driver to drop you off at an "in" place, for this will get you even further away from the real action. Taxi drivers get paid by the tourist attraction owners to drop you off there, and the mafia money they make through this is much higher than the tip you'll give them, so just forget about that taxi idea.</p>
<p>After you find a local hangout, enter the place and order some national drink, even if you don't like it. This will immediately make everyone else notice you are a tourist, and they'll be so excited that a tourist has actually popped up in this remote corner of town that they'll like your face just because it's a different one for once. If you then tell them that their country is really beautiful and you really like it, they'll absolutely love you, invite you for one round after another of that national drink you don't even like, and generally have a great time all night long.</p>
</div>
