---
layout: "article"
title: "Gruenau, Namibia, Earth"
subtitle: "Relax; Have Another Sandwich"
author: "Michael Bleyer"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R40"
permalink: "articles/2R40"
pgg_date: "1993/07/13"
article_date: "1993/07/13"
alternative_title_1: "Sandwiches"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1993-07-13 00:00"
see_also:
  - 1R1
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>So you actually ended up in this place, hmm? Well, otherwise you would hardly be reading this article. You don't know how it happened? Well, rest assured that this is the first thought that comes to everyone's mind passing through there. While trying to figure it out you can check out some of the features it has to offer.</p>
<p>This is where we get to the point. Not much. That is, unless you are a geologist and interested in the wide variety of stones and sand. Besides some houses and about 200 inhabitants, there is also a road and a gas station. While waiting for a ride, try some of the sandwiches they offer. By far the best sandwiches you'll find on the continent. If you enjoy such delicacies as dried Kudu and Springbok meat (homemade), there is a little hut beside the road some miles north of the gas station where they offer this in exchange for money. I have been told it is pretty good as well.</p>
<p>If you get lucky, you can watch some giraffes roller-skating down the road with large trucks tied to their feet. Not that this sport is allowed anywhere in Africa, but the local cops are pretty cool, so this is tolerated.</p>
<p>Other things that are not available are rides to other places. In such a desperate situation, do not be tempted to ride with german tourists, which travel in khaki-coloured Land Rovers. They are obviously in pursuit of adventure, and driving fast on these sand roads is suicidal.</p>
<p>Relax. Have another sandwich.</p>
</div>
