---
layout: "article"
title: "Bars, European"
subtitle: "Bars To Look Out For"
author: "James Agay"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R46"
permalink: "articles/2R46"
pgg_date: "1993/05/15"
article_date: "1993/05/15"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1993-05-15 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2R2
  - 2R45
  - 1R1
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>If you have the good fortune to find yourself in Europe, here are a few recommendations:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Le Carlton, Charmonix, France. Behind the casino. This is a combination pizzeria/bar. The pizza is good and cheap - probably the best way to spend your money on food. There are cheaper meals but you get a lot of pizza for your money, and Carmonix is a <em>very</em> expensive town. The bar is good, not too expensive, with small but fun pool tables, good music, and generally friendly. Be sure to order 'Bier avec pecan'. That's beer mixed with a liqueur called Pecan. It's no Gargle Blaster but it still packs a wallop. Two thumbs up.</li>
<li value="2">La Rocha, Amsterdam, Holland. My choice for late night. Open all hours, plus an attractive bamboo and grass decour. Be careful of the stairs leading to the upstairs drug room. They are steep and get steeper as the morning approaches. Good pool tables but be careful not to get hustled. Beer is expensive (like $8 for a pint), but try the fruit juice. Drugs are cheap. Located along the main street, just down from the station.</li>
<li value="3">The Babies, Benidorm, Spain. Definitely the hoopiest place in Benidorm, and Benidorm is a city that is partying 24 hours. A good night in Benidorm lasts until about 10:30 the next morning, then cover yourself with a big towel and sleep under a boardwalk on the beach. My personal record is 4 good nights in a row, which really borders on self abuse. The Babies is the only real hard rockin' bar in the central part of town. The decour is black. The tables, floor, walls, roof, etc. all black. The music is loud, both in volume and style. At the bar, you can only order by pointing at your empty glass or bottle, so it is important to bring a bottle in with you to order with, since verbal communication is impossible. I am not joking. You need an empty beer to order a full one. It costs about $1 per pint so plan on self abusive consumption.</li>
<li value="4">Citroin, Paris, France. This is a place to check out. Don't plan on more then one drink since the prices are in the stratosphere. The Bar is on the Champs Elliesee. This is a place to go once you are already more then half way through your night. What makes this place special is it a bar, restaurant, antique car museum, and new car showroom, all in one, all jumbled together. At least look around. Watch out for the bouncers; they don't want people damaging the classic cars.</li>
<li value="5">Rotterdams (bar), Toronto, Canada. Located on King Street, east of Spidina. Watch out for the neighborhood. A great, but expensive, bar featuring about 200 different beers. Try the $15/per bottle Belgium peach beer. Take a tour of the on-site brewery. Try the Sunday buffet.</li>
<li value="6">Launbrau Beer Hall, Munich, Germany. Ask anyone where it is. Massive bar. This is the bar where Hitler survived a bomb in the 1930's. This has been one of the biggest bars in Germany for hundreds of years. Be there and just absorb the atmosphere. If you are in the mood, order a glass of milk on the side. I did; it took two hours. Mind you it was in the early morning but it was fun.</li>
</ol>
</div>
