---
layout: "article"
title: "Sweden: The True Story"
subtitle: "The Swedes Are Not Swedes"
author: "Henrik O A Barkman"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R81"
permalink: "articles/2R81"
pgg_date: "1994/05/29"
article_date: "1994/05/29"
alternative_title_1: "Russia, Creation Of"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sun, 1994-05-29 00:00"
see_also:
  - 1R1
  - 2S10
  - 8R
  - 2S29
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Sweden is a kingdom in northeastern Europe, consisting mainly of forests, lakes and mountains. Somewhere between the trees and lakes about nine million human beings known as Swedes have their homes. Please treat the word "Swede" case sensitively, since most Swedes are different from swedes. The majority of the Swedes live in cities, even though the cities are almost parts of the forests. I live in the capital, Stockholm, but I still have several trees between my house and my neighbour's.</p>
<p>Back in the time of the Vikings, the Swedes mostly travelled east during their raids. Since there were no Russia back then, someone had to create it. The Swedes did. The name "Russia" is probably derived from "Ruserna," the inhabitants of a part of Sweden known as Roslagen. Ever since then, we have fought with the Russians. Sometimes we won, and sometimes we lost. We lost the last time, back in 1809, when we lost Finland to the Russians. Some of us are still waiting for a return game.</p>
<p>Even though most Swedes consider themselves peaceful, and there has been no official battles since 1814, it was only two years ago we declared peace with Norway. We are still (since the 17th century) in a state of war with San Marino.</p>
<p>For some reason, English-speaking creatures seem to have problems with realizing that Sweden and Switzerland are different countries. They are different.</p>
</div>
