---
layout: "article"
title: "Towns Article Writing Guide For Field Researchers"
subtitle: "Useful Help For Writing Articles On (Boring) Places, Possibly"
author: "Roel van der Meulen"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R83"
permalink: "articles/2R83"
pgg_date: "1994/05/26"
article_date: "1994/05/26"
alternative_title_1: "Tips on Article Writing"
alternative_title_2: "Villages"
alternative_title_3: "Towns"
alternative_title_4: "Cities"
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1994-05-26 00:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>If you are writing or want to write about a specific place where a lot of people come together to live and do things (usually called villages, towns or cities) you might find it helpful to consult this here article. It could be, for instance, that you live in a typical boring place and want to write something about it but don't know what because everything is so boring. But you could also find yourself in a city where there is so much to do and see that there is too much to write.</p>
<p>In the former case, this article can give you a clue as to what there is to write about and the items can ring a bell to the more interesting borities. Then after writing the main body of the article fit the words "Conclusion: mostly harmless" unless of course the place is so boring it is a mental hazard. "Mostly (something, invent your own description)" as a summary will do in most situations.</p>
<p>In the latter case, you can use this list to organize your impressions to a readable order and/or just pick out only the most interesting stuff. It is superfluous to say you can also write down the whole lot.</p>
<p>I will start the enumeration with the %-token thingies:</p>
<pre>
  %t Village/Town/City, State/Borough, Country, Earth
  %s What's The Most Important Thing About The Place
  %a Your name  (your Internet email account)
  %d Today's date, in YYYYMMDD format
  %x Earth
  %x Country (if article(s) are available)
  %x Tourists (optional cross-references)
</pre>
<p>Possible topics to include in an article about a village/town/city:</p>
<pre>
          o City area, surroundings, shape and aesthetics
          o Population, growing rate, population density and comparisons
            with other places
          o What's in there:
              Major industry
              (Special) shops
              Kind of houses
              Parks etc.
              Schools &amp; Universities
              Zones, districts
              Inhabitants: who, wealth, character, religion, languages
                           and dialects, famous people
          o Atmosphere of the town (could also be at the end), weather
          o Local politics
          o Crime, traffic
          o History of town (including name and age)
          o Tourism: old stuff and new stuff; culture: ruins, museums,
                     galleries, churches, concert halls, statues etc;
                     attractions, festivities, sight seeing tours,
                     souvenirs, etc.
          o Inside tips and hints for real fun/adventures; where to hang
            out, pubs, etc.
          o Fun in the surrounding area
          o Sports
          o Currency and prices of staying and buying stuff
          o How to move about
          o How to get there and get away again
          o Where and what to eat
          o Where to stay
          o Other stuff
          o Checklists:
              Required equipment (what to bring)
              Best time to go
              Best time to leave
              Things you should try
              Things you should avoid
              Things you should forget
              Things you mustn't lose
</pre>
<p>At any one of all these items you can insert an anecdote.</p>
<p>As usual with guides, you are free to do it differently if you think that is better, but don't blame me for getting lost. You could want to add items, delete some, or put them in a different order (and here I use the word 'order' for the people who have been able to find one in the above enumeration, otherwise the word 'permutation' is possibly more in order).</p>
<p>And please try to be more witty in your article than I have been in this one (was: not witty whatsoever).</p>
<p>Some authors might recognize things in this list they have used before. They are completely right; I have looked what they have used and added some ideas of my own. Let's see if the rate of articles appearing about places increases.</p>
</div>
