---
layout: "article"
title: "New Zealand, Earth"
subtitle: "Two (Or Three?) Islands, And Nobody Knows Which Is Which"
author: "Joerg Rhiemeier"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R93"
permalink: "articles/2R93"
pgg_date: "1993/10/14"
article_date: "1993/10/14"
alternative_title_1: "Pig Island(s)"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1993-10-14 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2S6
  - 1R1
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>New Zealand is known to be one of the less warlike of the many warlike nations of the planet Earth. It consists of two remote islands commonly referred to as North Island and South Island. But these are not the real names of the islands. The real names of the islands are Mainland and Pig Island. The problem with these names is that nobody really knows which of the two islands is Mainland and which one is Pig Island. There are two theories about this. One theory states that Mainland is North Island and Pig Island is South Island. The other theory states that Mainland is South Island and Pig Island is North Island. Interestingly, most inhabitants of North Island support the first theory whilst most inhabitants of South Island support the second theory. This is, as anyone can see easily, quite confusing. But to make it even more confusing, some New Zealanders (apparently from both islands) object to the second sentence of this article. They say that New Zealand consists of <strong>three</strong> islands, of which the third (and, by far, largest) is named West Island. Most people in West Island, however, support neither of the theories discussed above, which makes the whole thing again more confusing. They say there were <strong>two</strong> Pig Islands: North Island and South Island. Furthermore, they don't name West Island West Island, but call it Australia, and object to being New Zealanders at all.</p>
<p>The entire matter is considered to be the final proof that there is no such thing as an absolute space.</p>
</div>
