---
layout: "article"
title: "Prolific Writing"
subtitle: "How To Write Properly (Or Not To)"
author: "Christopher P. Thomas"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R96"
permalink: "articles/2R96"
pgg_date: "1993/12/11"
article_date: "1993/12/11"
alternative_title_1: "Deadlines, Problems With"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1993-12-11 01:00"
see_also:
  - 2U53
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Most problems with creative writing these days stem from deadlines. It's the old story of:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Writer gets commission to write something.</li>
<li value="2">Publisher says "jolly good" and goes off to annoy another less fortunate writer.</li>
<li value="3">Writer attempts to write something, but gives up, thinking "I'll start tomorrow."</li>
<li value="4">Publisher tells writer to finish current chapter by the end of the month.</li>
<li value="5">Writer goes to lots of parties and forgets about deadline.</li>
<li value="6">Publisher gets irritable when first deadline passes.</li>
<li value="7">Writer has lots more fun at parties, and attempts to explain away hangover by calling it "writer's block."</li>
<li value="8">Publisher gets angry and sets another deadline.</li>
<li value="9">Writer tries to do some writing, and misses said deadline.</li>
<li value="10">Repeat steps 6 &amp; 7 for a few times until everyone gets dizzy.</li>
<li value="11">Writer eventually finishes book.</li>
<li value="12">Publisher is happy, and pays writer copious amounts of money.</li>
<li value="13">Writer is mobbed by scores of marauding fans armed to the teeth with autograph books.</li>
</ol>
<p>To avoid these unpleasant situations, try the following system instead:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Think up an idea for you to write about. Don't tell anyone about it.</li>
<li value="2">Lock yourself away in a room with your word processor, microwave cooker, and several heat-and-eat meals.</li>
<li value="3">If anyone asks what you are doing, say you are playing one of those computer games that is so complicated, if you leave it now, you'll never complete it, ever.</li>
<li value="4">Write the book, without pressure of deadlines or death threats from irritable publishers.</li>
<li value="5">When the book is finished, tell Publisher that you have an idea for a book (sneaky huh?).</li>
<li value="6">Publisher says "jolly good" and wonders which unfortunate writer to intimidate next.</li>
<li value="7">Writer goes to lots of parties, and forgets about nasty Publisher.</li>
<li value="8">Publisher sets lots of deadlines, and is surprised when...</li>
<li value="9">Writer magically makes all the deadlines.</li>
<li value="10">Everyone is happy, and writer gains reputation as a miracle worker.</li>
</ol>
<p>I think you will agree this is a far better system than the first, since it avoids all those nasty headaches, vicious confrontations over the phone, premature hair loss, drunken let-me-forget-everything stupors, and sleepless nights that are usually associated with writing wonderful works of literature.</p>
<p>Of course, you could just ignore everything in this section and go to a party.</p>
</div>
