---
layout: "article"
title: "Proof Techniques"
subtitle: "Getting People To Believe You (As Good As, If Not Better Than, Proof)"
author: "David McGregor Squire/Craig Dillon"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "2S31"
permalink: "articles/2S31"
pgg_date: "1992/07/02"
article_date: "1992/07/02"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1992-07-02 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2R164
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>A collection of proof techniques that will prove invaluable to both mathematicians and members of the general public.</p>
<p>PROOF TECHNIQUE #1 - "Proof By Induction"</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Obtain a large power transformer.</li>
<li value="2">Find someone who does not believe your theorem.</li>
<li value="3">Get this person to hold the terminals on the HV side of the transformer.</li>
<li value="4">Apply 25000 volts AC to the LV side of the transformer.</li>
<li value="5">Repeat step (4) until they agree with the theorem.</li>
</ol>
<p>PROOF TECHNIQUE #2 - "Proof By Contradiction"</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">State your theorem.</li>
<li value="2">Wait for someone to disagree.</li>
<li value="3">Contradict them.</li>
</ol>
<p>PROOF TECHNIQUE #3 - Fire Proof</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Summon all your inferiors for a departmental meeting.</li>
<li value="2">Present your theorem.</li>
<li value="3">Fire those who disagree.</li>
</ol>
<p>PROOF TECHNIQUE #4 - The Famous Water Proof</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">State your theorem.</li>
<li value="2">Wait for someone to disagree.</li>
<li value="3">Drown them.</li>
</ol>
<p>NB. This is closely related to the "bullet" proof, but is easier to make look like an accident.</p>
<p>PROOF TECHNIQUE #5 - Idiot Proof</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">State your theorem.</li>
<li value="2">Write exhaustive documentation with glossy colour pictures and arrows about which bit goes where.</li>
<li value="3">Challenge anyone to not understand it.</li>
</ol>
<p>PROOF TECHNIQUE #6 - Child Proof</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">State your theorem.</li>
<li value="2">Encapsulate it in epoxy and shape it into an ellipsoid.</li>
<li value="3">Put it in a jar with all the other proofs (one with one of those Press-to-Open lids).</li>
<li value="4">Give it to a professor and challenge him to open it.</li>
</ol>
<p>PROOF TECHNIQUE #7 - Rabbit Proof</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Generate theorems at an altogether startling rate, much faster than anybody is able to refute them. Use up every body else's paper. Run away at the slightest sign of danger.</li>
<li value="2">Leave any crap in small, easily identified piles, in prominent places where you no longer are, and it cannot in fact be proven that you ever were.</li>
</ol>
<p>PROOF TECHNIQUE #8 - Fool Proof</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">State your theorem.</li>
<li value="2">Invite colleagues to comment.</li>
<li value="3">If they don't agree, exclaim loudly, "You Fools!"</li>
</ol>
</div>
