---
layout: "article"
title: "Swimming With Clothes On"
subtitle: "A Cheap And Safe Alternative To Expensive And Dangerous Neo-Sports"
author: "Joerg Rhiemeier"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "2S37"
permalink: "articles/2S37"
pgg_date: "1994/04/28"
article_date: "1994/04/28"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1994-04-28 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2S38
  - 2U11
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>It is an irrefutable fact that people, searching for new, unknown, thrilling experiences, invent thousands of crazy things to do. Some of these, like learning to play the octaventral heebiephone or walking through mountains, are simply impossible; others, like Big Bang riding or mind-surfing, may be not impossible in principle, but special suppliance is needed which is not available on Earth. (Or do you know a mechanic who could fit a flare-riding vessel for Big Bang riding or a sports goods store selling mind-surfboards?) Hence, other kinds of sport are practiced here, such as bungee jumping, jumping over 24 trucks with a motor bike, or jumping over 24 motor bikes with a truck.</p>
<p>Most of these sports have one thing in common: they are both expensive and dangerous. But there is a cheap and safe alternative to that: swimming with clothes on. Furthermore, swimming with clothes on (which means clothes not usually worn in water, such as blue jeans, shirts, jumpsuits, trenchcoats, or dinner-suits, not stuff like bikinis or neoprene diving suits) is not only cheap and safe, but it is also both very hoopy and astonishingly practical (you need to change your clothes only once, after swimming, instead of twice, before and after swimming). And it is not as hard to do as most unexperienced people are likely to expect. However, it is good advice to slip off the wet clothes before going home or doing anything else after finishing swimming, lest you catch cold.</p>
<p>As with so many other things, a beginner should not try to face the ultimate challenge, but start with something easy: a long-sleeved shirt and blue jeans is really fine, but a light jumpsuit shouldn't be harder. Then you can go on step by step: add a pullover or a light jacket, then upgrade to a trenchcoat or something like that - that's simply marvelous! And after that, there are the real challenges waiting for you. Skiing jackets, heavy woolen and leather coats, and so on. Those of you who tend towards something more noble and splendid should try swimming in a dinner- or tail-suit. Have fun!</p>
</div>
