---
layout: "article"
title: "Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, Earth"
subtitle: "A Non-Tourist&apos;s View Of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, Earth"
author: "Daniel Bowen"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "2S5"
permalink: "articles/2S5"
pgg_date: "1992/06/24"
article_date: "1992/06/24"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1992-06-24 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2S6
  - 1R1
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, Earth, is in Australia, on Earth, which partially if not totally accounts for its name as such. Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (we shall avoid overuse of the term "Earth" as it tends to confuse locals from that particular neck-of-the-galaxy), should not be confused with Melbourne, Florida, USA. Melbourne, Florida was actually named after Melbourne, Victoria, Australia by a local of the latter.</p>
<p>Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, was in turn named after a certain member of the British aristocracy of the 1800's (Earth time) named Lord Melbourne. This may be of no consequence whatsoever, but certain historical experts have debated this fact, and maintain that as their jobs depend on it, it is important for historical facts such as this to be preserved until at least tea-time.</p>
<p>Melbourne is a little bit famous for its trams, which can confuse it at first glance with Seattle, Washington, USA. This is because Seattle managed to purchase some of Melbourne's trams during the 1980s. Trams are big wooden (generally) green things on wheels that roll down streets of their own accord. They live by few rules, excepting that they do tend to stick to their tracks, although their reliance on such concepts as "timetables" is doubtful. In any case, trams carry people who don't know where they want to go, somewhere, thus avoiding any problems with packs of roaming people who don't know where they want to go.</p>
<p>Melbourne is also famous for its gardens. Indeed, the state of which Melbourne is a capital, Victoria, which is also named after a certain member of the British aristocracy of the 1800's, is also known as the "Garden State." For some time, this epitaph has appeared on car license plates in the state, which may be somewhat ironic given the unfortunate spread of freeways around the city in recent years.</p>
<p>Melbourne, being the capital of the gardenish state of Victoria, is therefore the seat of the state government. At the time of writing, it is not a particularly good state government, but many locals will claim that they can never remember a particularly good state government, so it probably doesn't matter much. The next state government probably won't be particularly good either.</p>
<p>The only other slightly interesting thing to relate about Melbourne is that it is known for its comedy. Why this is is not apparent at first glance, but most of the populace claim that what with the rotten weather, government, economic crisis, etc., Melbourne people of all people need something to laugh about.</p>
</div>
