---
layout: "article"
title: "Movement"
subtitle: "How To Move From One Point To Another"
author: "Rickard Andersson"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "2S53"
permalink: "articles/2S53"
pgg_date: "1994/07/19"
article_date: "1994/07/19"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1994-07-19 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2R68
  - 1R1
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>As a hitchhiker you are probably used to the phenomena of movement. But if you feel that you aren't an expert in the field of movement or if you have a terrible hangover and forgotten how to move, here are some tips regarding the use of movements.</p>
<p>The first thing you have to learn is how to do <em>movement in space</em>. This can shortly be described as how to get from point A to point B (or in some extreme cases to point C). On the planet Earth, this is mostly done by moving in an almost straight line around the surface of the globe. In the universe, the moving can be done in a lot of other ways. For instance, imagine the space as a napkin that is tucked together and washed in an enormous washer. To move about in this space you need much luck and a dirty towel. If this hypothesis doesn't make sense to you, there are many other simplifying ideas on how to imaging movement in space.</p>
<p>When a hitchhiker has learned all the various ways of moving in space, a new grade of difficulty can be entered. This includes how to do <em>movement in time</em>. But it would be a lie to say that all movements in time are difficult to perform. On the planet Earth a hitchhiker can without to much trouble move forward in time one second 60 times every minute. This is the task that most of the habitants on Earth practice constantly. It seems as the movement backwards in time isn't nearly as popular.</p>
<p>You must move in space to some more obscure places in the universe to meet people that have movement backwards in time as their natural way of time movement. And you risk being a bit confused in meeting them, because they would answer your questions before you said them and leave you before (or is it after) you have meet them.</p>
<p>To become one of the more famous hitchhikers in the universe, a third level must be obtained. This means that you have been introduced to <em>movement in public toilet queues</em>.</p>
<p>Beyond this level there are some other ways of movement that will make life as a hitchhiker a lot easier. And to gain the most of your movement ability, you have to use more that one type of movement at the same time.</p>
</div>
