---
layout: "article"
title: "JSP"
subtitle: "Why Use JSP When You Can Eat Spaghetti?"
author: "Mazda Imperfekt"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "2S8"
permalink: "articles/2S8"
pgg_date: "1992/09/28"
article_date: "1992/09/28"
alternative_title_1: "Administration Technology"
alternative_title_2: "Jackson&apos;s Structured Programming"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1992-09-28 00:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>If you are fond of JSP, then stop reading now since this entry will seriously disrupt your sense of structure.</p>
<p>To the not-so-well-educated computer-freak-who-wants-to-know-it-all type, the whole concept of JSP may be very alien (Great movie!), but we will try to straighten those things out right away.</p>
<p>JSP stands for Jackson's Structured Programming, and is a way to develop structured programs for administration and such "large" applications. It was developed by a guy named ... Jackson ?, who thought it would be a great idea to torture students with a totally incomprehensible way of thinking.</p>
<p>JSP complicates the fine art of software development into a huge mass of strange, white, rectangular "things" with some strange symbols on it (paper to the rest of us). Why even try to get some "structure" by using the so- called "only" way of structured programming when you can use something so enormously more tasty like spaghetti programming! I am not Italian, but I must state that spaghetti tastes a lot better than those white, rectangular things!</p>
<p>And if this would not be enough to convert even the most dedicated JSP'er, the enormous mass of those white, rectangular thingies, converted into Spaghetti, would create a mountain of Pasta similar to the Great Spaghetti- Bolognese Hive at Berghioningha IV. No! I say to hell with JSP and give us more PASTA!</p>
<p>Hasta la Pasta! <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

