---
layout: "article"
title: "i"
subtitle: "i, The Square Root Of -1, Is 42"
author: "Daniel Carosone"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "2U13"
permalink: "articles/2U13"
pgg_date: "1987/01/02"
article_date: "1987/01/02"
alternative_title_1: "Irrational Numbers"
alternative_title_2: "Imaginary Numbers"
alternative_title_3: "Question To The Answer, The"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1987-01-02 01:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>The Question to the Answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything...</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">The Answer to the Question is 42.
<pre>
[ Ed. note -- unfortunately for the premise of this entire article,
  the factuality of the above statement is currently under debate;
  once enough persuasion from one side or the other finally resolves
  the issue, this article, and perhaps many of the others, shall
  definitely be updated (maybe). ]
</pre>
</li>
<li value="2">Marvin, amongst numerous other complaints, claimed to have a brain the size of a planet.</li>
<li value="3">Marvin, like other robots, has a computer-based brain.</li>
<li value="4">The Earth is a planet.</li>
<li value="5">The Earth was built by the mice as a computer, the only such planet or computer ever built.</li>
<li value="6">By (2), (3), (4), and (5), the Earth must therefore be Marvin's brain.</li>
<li value="7">The sole purpose of the Earth's program was to discover the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything.</li>
<li value="8">Marvin once announced that he had, in a moment of boredom, found the square root of -1, something never before done in the history of the universe, and previously believed by all sensible hyper-intelligent beings to be possibly the most difficult task to undertake, as it was dependent on the very structure of the Universe. (Most normally- intelligent beings gave up, dismissing it as impossible.)</li>
<li value="9">Marvin announced that he felt a brief, but deep, sense of satisfaction after having accomplished the achievement in (8).</li>
<li value="10">The Earth was apparently destroyed just as the purpose of its program was fulfilled, and a Question had been found.</li>
<li value="11">By (7), the Earth computer would have felt a deep sense of satisfaction at having achieved the task it was designed to fulfil.</li>
<li value="12">By (10), the sensation in (11) would have been brief.</li>
<li value="13">By (6), and by the fact that emotional feelings are based in the brain, the feelings in (9), (11) and (12) are the same single feeling.</li>
<li value="14">Finding the Ultimate Question was deemed to be the single most difficult task undertaken by hyper-intelligent beings in the history of the universe, as it was dependant on the very structure of the Universe -- as well as Life and Everything.</li>
<li value="15">By (6), (8), (13), and (14), Marvin (the Earth) had clearly solved the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything.</li>
<li value="16">By (8) and (15), the Question is "What is the square root of -1?".</li>
<li value="17">By (1) and (16), the square root of -1 is 42.</li>
</ol>
<!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END-->
</div>

