---
layout: "article"
title: "Computerats"
subtitle: "Description Of The Computerat, An Organic Computer"
author: "Steven K. H. Siew"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "2U16"
permalink: "articles/2U16"
pgg_date: "1993/01/23"
article_date: "1993/01/23"
alternative_title_1: "Computer, Organic"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1993-01-23 01:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>A lesser known fact of the unknown universe is the existence of organic computers. Until fairly recently, most people were under the impression that computers were made, not evolved; however this myth was later computed to be utterly false to the sixth heximal place.</p>
<p>On an obscure little planet called Gerdine in the Habsobin star system, hidden behind the dark Magellan Clouds, there lives a race of creatures uncommonly known as Computerats. These creatures were first discovered by a psychopath serial killer by the name of Sebriga on the run from Galactic Police about sixty years ago (relative to the time frame of the Galactic Center).</p>
<p>The first thing that struck the killer when she saw one of the creatures was a small piece of rock which landed painfully on her forehead, thrown by the creature's companion which was distressed at the sight of its mate being sawed in half. The killer tried to communicate with the computerat but it failed to understand her peaceful message of waving her hacksaw in the air. Instead, the computerat screamed back, "Nyot diat diat nyot diat diat nyot diat nyot!"</p>
<p>Sebriga then realized that these creatures communicate in binary fashion. She translated the words as "Nyot" is "1" and "Diat" is "0" [ Ed. note: it could be the other way around ]. Further observations revealed the following amazing facts.</p>
<p>First, the creatures are about the size of pigs, but look rather like rats. The computerats have eight limbs and live on datapacks (another lifeform on the planet). Most of the time the computerats are on GOTOs going from one subroutine to another for no apparent reason, and sometimes suffer CRASHs with other computerats. If this should ever happen, the two computerats would starve to death as follows:</p>
<pre>
         REPEAT
           CRASHing
         UNTIL the other dies;
</pre>
<p>But the most interesting aspect of computerats are their sex lives, which, incidently, pleased Sebriga greatly.</p>
<p>When a computerats enters its reproduction period, its clockrate doubles from 12 Megalifecycle to 24 Megalifecycle. This is observed by the fact that the computerats move and think twice as fast as normal. The computerat would find a mate (the computerats are asexual) who is also in "heat." It's easy to detect a computerat in heat; its CPU (Central reProduction Unit) would be so hot that some fear they might melt by its extreme heat. The reproduction itself is by BINARY fusion, where the binary instructions from both computerats merge to produce a new set of instructions for the newborn computerat. The greatest danger during this period is VDU (Virus Downloading Unnotice) or, as some call it, Venereal Disease Unicode. This has the effect of both computerats terminating the processes, aborting the PROGRAM altogether.</p>
<p>Another aspect of the computerats is that they can solve extremely complex logical problems in microseconds while being stumped for days by a simple non-logical problem. Recently there was an illegal trade involving computerats as replacement parts for mainframe computers; to this day, the Galactic Police are still trying to capture the mastermind behind this trade -- a person by the name of Sebriga. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

