---
layout: "article"
title: "The Sad Bastard Test"
subtitle: "Lifestyle Examination And Self Analysis"
author: "Alexander Lachlan McLintock"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "2U25"
permalink: "articles/2U25"
pgg_date: "1993/04/09"
article_date: "1993/04/09"
alternative_title_1: "Purity Test, NOT!"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1993-04-09 00:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>You may be asked to complete the following test at a variety of social events in the region of LoonDoon. You are forewarned and have no excuse for failure.</p>
<h2>The Sad Bastard Test</h2>
<p>Each question requires a "yes" or a "no" answer. You can tick the boxes in the grid at the end of this article if you want, but any spare piece of skin and a biro will do.</p>
<p>Do not quibble about interpretation. Make up your own mind as to what the questions mean. You don't get a free point by writing your name at the top of the page. Count up your "yes" answers; this sum is used to calculate your final score.</p>
<pre>
     Appearance:
</pre>
<ol>
<li value="1">Do you own an anorak?</li>
<li value="2">... with five or more pockets?</li>
<li value="3">... Does one of them contain an A-Z?</li>
<li value="4">Do you wear glasses?</li>
<li value="5">Are they mended with Sellotape(TM), fishing line, or epoxy?</li>
<li value="6">Have you tried to grow a beard?</li>
<li value="7">... and failed?</li>
<li value="8">... because you are female?</li>
<li value="9">Have you worn the same pair of trainers for more than two years?</li>
<li value="10">Have you worn sandals with socks?</li>
<li value="11">Are your jean turnups more than four inches high?</li>
<li value="12">Do people look at you and laugh?</li>
</ol>
<p>General Computing Questions:</p>
<ol>
<li value="13">Have you used a computer ?</li>
<li value="14">Have you owned more than three home computers?</li>
<li value="15">... Was one of them a ZX81? (Which you built yourself?)</li>
<li value="16">Have you ever had a Casio Calculator watch?</li>
<li value="17">Have you ever got into and argument about whether C was better than Modula 2 or Pascal?</li>
<li value="18">Do you collect old computing magazines for the nostalgic adverts (e.g., the Sinclair QL)?</li>
<li value="19">Can you pronounce GIF, LATEX, JPEG, &amp; SCSI?</li>
<li value="20">... Do you care?</li>
<li value="21">
<pre>
Have you ever deliberately crashed a computer?
               (Burn in hell scum!)
</pre>
</li>
<li value="22">Do you have an email address, and prefer it to the phone?</li>
<li value="23">Do you offer your email address to people before your name?</li>
<li value="24">Have you ever joined electronic chatline called "HotSex" (or similar) and discovered that all the "women" chatting were really men pretending to be women?</li>
<li value="25">... Were you one of them?</li>
<li value="26">Do you hold conversations in jargon?</li>
<li value="27">... with Acronyms/Abbreviations?</li>
<li value="28">... in C/Pascal/Assembly language?</li>
</ol>
<p>Computer Games:</p>
<ol>
<li value="29">Do you shout "NUKE 'EM!" in Lemmings?</li>
<li value="30">Have you played more than three versions of Tetris?</li>
<li value="31">Have you ever been Elite?</li>
<li value="32">Are you waiting for the virtual reality game of "Leisure Suit Larry"?</li>
<li value="33">Do you sometimes play computer games for more than three hours a day?</li>
<li value="34">... more than six hours?</li>
<li value="35">... whilst asleep/eating/in the bath?</li>
<li value="36">Have you ever had more than thirty computer games at any one time?</li>
<li value="37">... More than 100?</li>
<li value="38">Do you get ever so upset if someone knocks you off the high score table?</li>
<li value="39">Do you buy computer game hint magazines? (Cheat!)</li>
<li value="40">Do you want to buy a Sega Megadrive? (Contact ICSF committee)</li>
</ol>
<p>RPG Section:</p>
<ol>
<li value="41">Do you know what R.P.G. stands for?</li>
<li value="42">Do you know what these are: PC, NPC, FRPG, GURPS, THAC0?</li>
<li value="43">Do you own more than one RPG?</li>
<li value="44">Do you own a d20?</li>
<li value="45">Do you own more than 100 dice?</li>
<li value="46">Do you own a d100?</li>
<li value="47">Have you ever played an RPG by yourself because no one else turned up?</li>
<li value="48">Have you ever LRPGed?</li>
<li value="49">Have you ever used RPG as a sex substitute? (Does your character get more than you do?)</li>
</ol>
<p>TV &amp; Video &amp; Films &amp; Books:</p>
<ol>
<li value="50">Do you know all the words to Rocky Horror?</li>
<li value="51">... the audience participation version?</li>
<li value="52">Do you have a complete collection of Star Trek videos (not including ones taped off the telly)?</li>
<li value="53">Are you now collecting Star Trek TNG?</li>
<li value="54">When you were younger did you want to be a "Red Shirt"? (You know, those security guards in ST -- the ones who were the first to get shot.)</li>
<li value="55">Did you want to be a Tracy brother and fly Thunderbird 2?</li>
<li value="56">Do you watch Telly Addicts to improve your knowledge of television?</li>
<li value="57">Do you get a friend to vet your sitcoms and only watch the ones he doesn't like?</li>
<li value="58">Do you think that "It's a Knockout" should be repeated?</li>
<li value="59">Have you read more than 5 Gor books? (Written by John Norman)</li>
<li value="60">Have you read the Star Trek Technical Manual?</li>
<li value="61">Do you often say "It's not as good as Tom Baker's Doctor Who"?</li>
<li value="62">Have you read an entire Steve Jackson Fighting Fantasy book? (From cover to cover?)</li>
<li value="63">Have you been on a TV quiz show (e.g., "Blockbusters," "University Challenge," "15 to 1")?</li>
<li value="64">Have you read Paul Darrow's Blake's 7 novel?</li>
<li value="65">Do you still have porn mags from your teens?</li>
<li value="66">Did/do you have a crush on Carol Vordermann?</li>
</ol>
<p>General Lifestyle?</p>
<ol>
<li value="67">Have you turned up to a party 2 hours before anyone else?</li>
<li value="68">Have you held a party where no one turned up?</li>
<li value="69">Have you wanted to hold a party but not had the courage?</li>
<li value="70">Have you held a party where people didn't talk to you?</li>
<li value="71">Have you worn a costume all day at a (sci fi) convention?</li>
<li value="72">Have you spent an entire convention in the video room?</li>
<li value="73">When joining a club, convention, or anything with membership do you ask for number six? Double oh seven? Forty-two? Sixty-nine? Six six six?</li>
<li value="74">Have you ever photocopied parts of yourself? (Using enlarge?)</li>
<li value="75">Have you ever written part of a Sad Bastard Test?</li>
<li value="76">Would you describe yourself as a sad bastard?</li>
<li value="77">... Has anyone else?</li>
<li value="78">Do you use a tube map when you play Mornington Crescent?</li>
<li value="79">Have you got a collection of stamps/stuffed dodos/porn mags?</li>
<li value="80">Do you own a 1971 "Tell Me Why" annual?</li>
<li value="81">Do you have more than 5 Blue Peter books?</li>
<li value="82">Have you posted yourself mail to make yourself look popular?</li>
<li value="83">Have you collected the whole alphabet in smarties tops?</li>
<li value="84">Have you organized a con? Bonus for inviting yourself as G.O.H.</li>
<li value="85">Did you ever buy a C5?</li>
<li value="86">... Do you think the C5 was good?</li>
<li value="87">Have you ever spotted trains? Planes? Busses? Collected ISBN numbers?</li>
<li value="88">Have you ever left yourself a message on your own answerphone?</li>
<li value="89">Are you a member of Octarine?</li>
</ol>
<p>Sex, Drugs, and Rock'n'Roll (and Chocolate)</p>
<ol>
<li value="90">Do you know what teledildonics is?</li>
<li value="91">Have you ever done a purity test?</li>
<li value="92">... and told everyone your score?</li>
<li value="93">Have you done more than two? (And compared them?)</li>
<li value="94">Have you written a purity test?</li>
<li value="95">Have you ever wanted to be a tampon?</li>
<li value="96">Have you ever wanted to be Michelle Pfeiffer's underwear?</li>
<li value="97">Do you have a complete collection of Marvel Swimsuit Editions?</li>
<li value="98">Is innuendo as much of a sex life as you get?</li>
<li value="99">Have you looked through chemistry text books for drug structures?</li>
<li value="100">Can you draw the chemical structures for any drugs? (Not alcohol or caffeine)</li>
<li value="101">Have you not noticed you were being offered drugs until it was too late?</li>
<li value="102">Do you "only need one pint to get pissed"?</li>
<li value="103">Have you gone to the pub immediately after donating blood?</li>
<li value="104">Do you headbang to Bohemian Rhapsody?</li>
<li value="105">Do you regularly quote '70s songs?</li>
<li value="106">Do you sing along to ad jingles?</li>
<li value="107">Have you the complete collection of Dire Straits albums?</li>
<li value="108">... Do you listen to them?</li>
<li value="109">Do you listen to your music collection in alphabetical order?</li>
<li value="110">Have you more than three versions of the same song by the same artist?</li>
<li value="111">Have you ever done something to deliberately lower your purity test score?</li>
<li value="112">Have you hired a PI to track down a member of a pop group?</li>
<li value="113">Do you have more than 1 Rolf Harris song?</li>
<li value="114">Have you been on a "Club 18-30" holiday?</li>
<li value="115">Do you catalogue your music collection using a spreadsheet?</li>
<li value="116">Ummm... can you think of any more questions for us?</li>
</ol>
<p>(Sorry, I lied about there being a question on chocolate.)</p>
<pre>
  --------------------------------------------------------------------
</pre>
<dl compact>
<dt>email address</dt>
<dd>................... Name: ..........................</dd>
<dt>Address</dt>
<dd>...........................................................</dd>
<dt>Phone number</dt>
<dd>.................... Cash card PIN: .................</dd>
</dl>
<p>There are roughly 125 questions altogether so divide your score by 5 and multiply by 4.</p>
<pre>
  Answer grid (check off the boxes for "Yes" answers):
</pre>
<pre>
                           |                   |
        -------------------------------------------------------------
</pre>
<pre>
1-30    | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
        -------------------------------------------------------------
</pre>
<pre>
31-60   | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
        -------------------------------------------------------------
</pre>
<pre>
61-90   | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
        -------------------------------------------------------------
</pre>
<pre>
91-130  | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
        -------------------------------------------------------------
</pre>
<pre>
                           |                   |
</pre>
<p>Oh, and if you feel that the test was "ageist" then lose two points for expecting it to be Politically Correct.</p>
<pre>
        Score
        -----  x   4    =    ......%
          5
</pre>
<h3>Score Table:</h3>
<pre>
  1-10 : You are unreal!  You are such a hoopy frood that you couldn't
         do a thing wrong.
 11-20 : Hey, don't worry about it, you are probably an ex-sci fi fan.
 21-30 : My score is in here.  You are in the band between being too normal
         and too weird.
 31-40 : In a pub, if the barmaid has to decide between talking to you and
         talking to the accountant sipping something with an umbrella in
         it, the accountant wins.
 41-50 : This is Steve Brewster's range.  He is the one with the anorak with
         five pockets, and an A-Z.
 51-60 : Urr, you beat Steve!  Cor, wow!
 61-70 : People cross the street to avoid you.
 71-80 : Get with it.  You have been practicing, haven't you?
 81-90 : Cheat!  You go to Imperial College, don't you?
91-100 : SEEK HELP NOW!  YOU HAVE SB SYNDROME.  This isn't contagious
         because no one will go near you.
</pre>
<p>--------------------------------------------------------------------</p>
<p>Please send back new questions to:</p>
<pre>
       <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130206065929/mailto:alexmc@biccdc.co.uk">alexmc@biccdc.co.uk</a>
       or
       (The Sad Bastard Test)
       Imperial College Science Fiction Society
       c/o Imperial College Union
       Beit Quadrangle
       Prince Consort Road
       South Kensington
       London
       SW7 2BB
       (United Kingdom)
</pre>
<!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END-->
</div>

