---
layout: "article"
title: "Secret Of The @, The"
subtitle: "Who Made The @ And Why?"
author: "Peter Juul"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "2U44"
permalink: "articles/2U44"
pgg_date: "1994/03/24"
article_date: "1994/03/24"
alternative_title_1: "The Badger-Sect"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1994-03-24 01:00"
see_also:
  - 2R10
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>It is a widespread rumor that the @, also known as a "Curly a," a "sniarf," an "at," an "elephantnose," and even a "going" is simply another ASCII code meant to make people mental.</p>
<p>That is not true.</p>
<p>It is also said that the reason it is so widely used in connection with electronic mail of all sorts is that a $ would be misinterpreted, and a "@" was one of the few signs not yet used for anything else.</p>
<p>That, too, is a lie.</p>
<p>The truth is that it is a religious symbol for a mad sect of carnivoural badger-worshipping lunatics in the more western parts of Holland. They have through long and hard pushing at the right people, and pulling the wrong strings, made their symbol a means of communications.</p>
<p>This is in no way a secret coding of the number 666, as some might think, this having nothing to do with money.</p>
<p>It is, though, a secret coding of the sentence "Badgers are rather hoopy froods. Ni!" Their leader, "Bubba the Badger-like Being" made up the sign while watching "The Wizard of Oz" at 9 times normal speed for the 538th time that month. It suddenly occurred to him that the religion he wanted to start needed a sign, and that curly thing at the beginning of the Yellow Brick Road would probably qualify. He, being a little drunk at the time, made up the @ and a religion was born.</p>
<p>Very soon now, Bubba is expected to claim his copyright and start charging people for using the @. He'll be rich, and the Internet Community will be in trouble.</p>
<p>The religion is classified as: ?D4Z-9A0D</p>
<p>Comments:</p>
<blockquote>No one knows how many badgers exists, therefor the number of deities is unknown.
<p>No one knows the name of the sect, so there are NO ways to properly spell it.</p>
</blockquote>
</div>
