---
layout: "article"
title: "Hoovercraft"
subtitle: "They Really Suck"
author: "Ryan Tucker"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "2U66"
permalink: "articles/2U66"
pgg_date: "1994/07/17"
article_date: "1994/07/17"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: "Vacuum Cleaners"
alternative_title_3: "Cat Catcher"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sun, 1994-07-17 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2R80
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>In the UK, "hoovers" are the general name for vacuum cleaner, so a hoovercraft might be some kind of mobile vacuum cleaner which you sit on and it moves you about. :-) This idea has been used in the past as a replacement for the witch's broom.</p>
<p>Hoovercraft are mobile vacuum cleaners. They are frequently advertised on television, as a Self-Propelled Hoover Vacuum Cleaner, but it's really just a Hoovercraft. Hoovercrafts are the modern replacement for the witch's broom, often discussed in Earth mythology. They are also used by Cat Catchers to Catch Cats. In the Cat use, the operator sits on a special attached seat, which is between the Hoover and the Diesel Generator. When s/he wants to Catch a Cat, s/he just starts the generator and then flips the switch on the Hoover. The whole setup is propelled forward. When Hoovercraft finds a Cat, it homes in and then... FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFOOP!</p>
<p>Another, more domestic, use is as a Really, Really, REALLY BIG HOME Vacuum Cleaner. If you have a home the size of, say, Yankee Stadium attached to Michael Jackson's residence, all you have to do is purchase a Hoovercraft. Of course, if you're house is that size, you might want to purchase the optional AutoHoovercraft, which is a computer-controlled Hoovercraft. It has similarities to the Hero Jr. Robot in that it can sense when it's about to suck up a wall. But it has troubles telling the difference between a dust bunnie and a Cat, so you may end up with... FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFOOP!</p>
<p>By the way, if your cat gets FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFOOP'ed into your vacuum cleaner, the best advice is to change the bag quickly because it starts to stink after a while.</p>
</div>
