---
layout: "article"
title: "Origin Of Stupidity, The"
subtitle: "Stupid Things"
author: "George Jakubaas"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "2U81"
permalink: "articles/2U81"
pgg_date: "1995/02/09"
article_date: "1995/02/09"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1995-02-09 01:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Dr. Herb Larkooney of Fronkle II, Fronkle System, devoted his life to the investigation of the Origin of Stupidity. He never really got into it, however. (Soon after his decision to study Stupidity he lost his virginity.) His book entitled "Extremely Stupid Things to Say, Do and Think (During Sex)" contains 15 pages, contents included. On 14 pages he describes the best sex he ever had. His book became an immediate best-seller, spending 377 GAPs at the top of the "Galactic Chart of Readable Books." Dr. Larkooney died a happy man.</p>
<p>Larkooney's life impressed many people, especially intellectuals. Many started their own searches into the Origin of Stupidity, hoping to lead lives similar to Larkooney's. Most of them failed and were put into strange padded cells for such a long time, that afterwards they didn't even know who Garlop Dronglebweep was and why he ate all those light bulbs!</p>
<p>Fact is, every single university had a special ORSTUP (Origin of Stupidity) department which dealt with the above mentioned matter only. This happened to develop the longest, least interesting, and most boring studies in the history of time.</p>
<p>One single attempt to find out more about Stupidity was successful. The research was done by a human called Prep Holler. Holler studied without support of a university. He researched, alone, his whole life, traveling for years in time and space and wrote a single book entitled, <em>Bah! Dumbness!</em>. It is 29,642 pages long and is shipped together with the interesting brochure titled "Bah! Reading 29,642 pages!"</p>
<p>Mr. Holler claimed to have found the cradle of stupidity. He even asserted to have found the stupidest person in the universe. He traced this person's genealogy until he found a strange amoeba swimming in a yellowish-greenish puddle about 13 million years back, which is (or was) as he declared, the Mother of Stupidity.</p>
<p>Although he knew the names of the stupidest person and the planet on which this person lived, he never revealed them. He was afraid that it might overthrow the balance of the universe if the inhabitants of the galaxy suddenly blamed one single person for all the stupid mistakes ever made. His theory states that if suddenly all the hatred, frustration, and rage of the entire galaxy were concentrated on one planet, that planet would change silently and irreversibly into an extremely unattractive, radioactive turnip.</p>
<p>Mr. Prep Holler died a very unhappy man, as his book sold only one copy. It is said he bought it himself. Rumors say that the name of the planet is "Arth, Aerth, or Erth." <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

