---
layout: "article"
title: "Reciprocity Bugs"
subtitle: "The Personal Pests Of Mungoglott 27"
author: "Ian Campbell"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "2U89"
permalink: "articles/2U89"
pgg_date: "1995/06/02"
article_date: "1995/06/02"
alternative_title_1: "Bugs, Reciprocity"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1995-06-02 00:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>On the planet MungoGlott 27, in the Gronteeonde star cluster, lives a race of humanoids who have conquered their environment while preserving their ancient traditions of coexistence. Throughout their lifespan the happy people of MungoGlott live in luxury surroundings, dust-proofed from the harsh particle clouds outside. They have lived like this for centuries, their socio-economic problems solved long ago. One remnant of their wild past remains: a willing acceptance of parasites and vermin in and on their otherwise well-kept bodies. Yup, infestation isn't just for poor people anymore!</p>
<p>The Mungo harbour their little hangers-on with pride. Decorative beetles are considered fashion necessities among the social elite. Not just parasites, good friends. Because of the overwhelmingly good lifestyles these bugs enjoy (warmth, table scraps, good seats for Phantom), they have mutated into quite intelligent sentient beings. The average Mungo actually has a better relationship with his favorite tape worm than he does with his own parental units!</p>
<p>The obvious advice for any hitchhiker would be to go to the Department of Bodily Habitation upon arrival and get a parasitic visitors visa. Mungoese cuisine is renowned far and wide and well worth spending a few days in someones beehive. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

