---
layout: "article"
title: "Grues"
subtitle: "Subterranean Predator"
author: "Christopher W. Murphy"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "2U93"
permalink: "articles/2U93"
pgg_date: "1995/04/11"
article_date: "1995/04/11"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1995-04-11 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2U94
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>A subterranean creature, famed for its voracious appetite, its loathing of sunlight, and its primary dietary staple, adventurers, enchanters, and (you guessed it) hitchhikers. No one has ever successfully captured the likeness of a grue although tales of near escape from their ravenous jaws filled with razor-sharp fangs are not uncommon. They are considered quite evil, although none are known to be aligned with any exact incarnation or manifestation of Evil, and are best avoided.</p>
<p>NOTE: Grues are mentioned in the Zork myth-cycle (see Zork).</p>
<p>If you think you're in the vicinity of a grue, here are a few questions to ask yourself:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Is your immediate locale medievalish or fantastical? Would you describe any of your companions as trolls, ogres, or little Hobbity-things?
<p>If the answer is no, you have nothing to worry about. Grues (or the rumored existence of grues) have been documented only on planes of reality which are decided Tolkienesque -- dusty, moldy, dark ages.</p>
<p>If yes, move on to question #2.</p>
</li>
<li value="2">Are you in the complete, impenetrable dark?
<p>If the answer is no, again, you're okay. Grues detest even the slightest ambient solar light.</p>
<p>If the answer is yes, we can offer but one small bit of advice, although it generally goes against the editorial policy of the Guide:</p>
<p>Panic, for Zarquon's sake!</p>
</li>
</ol>
</div>
