---
layout: "article"
title: "Spawn"
subtitle: "Hellspawn, The Infernal Agent Of Evil"
author: "Christopher W. Murphy"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "2U95"
permalink: "articles/2U95"
pgg_date: "1995/04/12"
article_date: "1995/04/12"
alternative_title_1: "Simmons, Lt. Colonel Al"
alternative_title_2: "Hellspawn"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1995-04-12 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2U96
  - 1S5
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Spawn is an abbreviation of the proper "hellspawn," and is one of the leaders of the Malebolgia's infernal army which it plans to use against the forces of Heaven at Armageddon. They are selected for their works of evil during life, which are all presumably quite advanced for such relatively simple entities.</p>
<p>Hitchhikers who encounter Spawns are strongly advised to:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Not panic</li>
<li value="2">Immediately make considerable distance between the two of you.. like two or three light-years, for instance.</li>
</ol>
<p>Spawn's bodies are composed of psychoplasm, the very material which makes up Hell itself. Their uniforms are neural parasites, organisms which fuse directly with the host's nervous system and act as both superior offensive and defensive weaponry.</p>
<p>Each Spawn is returned to his the Living World with extremely powerful, although finite powers. This creates a four-way crossroad of sorts:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">They can do nothing at all. Eventually their energies will be spent, one way or another.</li>
<li value="2">They can act as forces of good - heroes, if you will. They draw upon the motivations and impulses which damned them, punishing the evil around them. The evil they vanquish returns to the Malebolgia for it's own uses.</li>
<li value="3">They can act as forces of evil, the Malebolgia's original intention.</li>
<li value="4">They can simply despair. These few perish from their own carelessness or design.</li>
</ol>
<p>In any case, the Spawn returns to Malebolgia, as servant or nourishment. Spawns have been witnessed channelling their infernal energies in a number of ways. This is by no means a complete list, but only a brief sampling of some of their known powers:</p>
<ul>
<li>Bolts of destructive energy</li>
<li>Healing itself after injury</li>
<li>Resurrecting the recently deceased</li>
<li>Teleportation (limited)</li>
<li>Changing body mass</li>
</ul>
<p>The latest hellspawn, as of the composition of this article, is Lt. Colonel Al Simmons. He is survived by his wife, Wanda Blake (recently remarried to Terry Fitzgerald, field agent of the United States Security Group).</p>
</div>
