---
layout: "article"
title: "Coffee"
subtitle: "Coffee; A Legal Drug"
author: "Rickard Andersson"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R2"
permalink: "articles/6R2"
pgg_date: "1994/09/06"
article_date: "1994/09/06"
alternative_title_1: "Drugs: Caffeine"
alternative_title_2: "Habit Forming Drugs: Caffeine"
alternative_title_3: "Stimulants: Caffeine"
alternative_title_4: "Irish Coffee"
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1994-09-06 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2R29
  - 2U40
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Coffee; taste the word.</p>
<p>For many human beings it means a change to get a break and regain some strength. To drink coffee has become a habit in the life of many people. This is because coffee is a drug. Yep, it contains caffeine. (This exists in other liquids as well, including Coke and Pepsi). The caffeine makes some people wanna drink coffee as early as possible in the mornings. (One or two would probably have it intravenously during the night as well). To be able to stay up working, the caffeine can be taken as pills, instead of drinking a lot of coffee.</p>
<p>The art of making a good cup of coffee can't be overestimated. And the number of different ways to make coffee is equal to the different ways that people drink it. The easiest way to drink it must be to just put it in a cup and start drinking. This is known as having ones coffee black. To reduce the amount of coffee in the cup, you can for example add sugar, milk, cream or ice-cream to it. What to add and in which amounts, is a classic discussion you can use the coffee break to solve.</p>
<p>And if you don't fancy drinking the coffee, there are a lot of receipes of how to put coffee in your food and deserts.</p>
<p>One way to make the coffee really interesting is to use it as an ingredient in Irish Coffee. The other ingredients are brown sugar, whipped cream and last but not least, the right amount of whiskey. Follow these short and descriptive instructions:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Put the brown sugar and whiskey in a cup.</li>
<li value="2">Fill up with coffee.</li>
<li value="3">Put a dab of whipped cream on the top.</li>
<li value="4">Yummy!</li>
</ol>
<p>If you are really addicted to coffee (caffeine), you have lots of possibilities to include it in all your daily food. And, the final solution is to put caffeine pills in your hot coffee. But, be warned! This doesn't count as a healty way of living.</p>
<p>To those of you that don't like coffee, I have one advice, drink tea. (It does contain caffeine too, you know :-)</p>
</div>
