---
layout: "article"
title: "Austria, Earth"
subtitle: "No Kangaroos In Austria"
author: "Chris Tann, The"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R21"
permalink: "articles/6R21"
pgg_date: "1995/02/21"
article_date: "1995/02/21"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1995-02-21 01:00"
see_also:
  - 2R124
  - 1R1
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "The reason for this is as yet unknown [2]."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "Even to Chris Tann."
  - 3:
    number: 3
    text: "Don&apos;t believe me? OK, here goes: Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Liechtenstein, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovania, and, um.... OK, you&apos;re right, its only seven."

---
<div>
<p>So, what is an Australian Field Researcher doing writing an article on Austria? Simple, my spelling is lousy, and I thought that I had a contract to write articles about my home country.</p>
<pre>
Surface area:    Much bigger than you would expect from its perimeter,
                 due to all the vertical bits.  This, along with a
                 simple law of thermodynamics, explains why the
                 country is so darn cold.
Population:      Around seven million.
Languages:       A mangled form of German, with many dialects such as
                 Styrian, which even other Austrians cannot comprehend.
Capital City:    Vienna, home of the famous Spanish Riding school, the
                 even more famous Viennese Boys Choir, and the still
                 more famous Wiener Schnitzel.
Major exports:   Strauss, Mozart, Adolf Hitler, Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Major imports:   Everything else
Favourite colour: Austrian Green, a very dark green colour chosen
                 for its drabness and complete lack of anything eye-catching
Monetary Units:  The Schilling.  Apparently, Austria wanted to buy
                 a new currency, and England gave them a cheap deal
                 on their unwanted currency during decimalisation.
Entertainment:   Skiing, skiing, skiing and skiing.  In summer, people
                 tell stories about the skiing they did last winter.
Popular foods:   Austria has many good traditional dishes, most of
                 which were stolen from the Hungarians. The rest
                 consist mostly of evil-looking sausages, clear
                 soups with indescribable dumplings bobbing around,
                 and lots of potatoes and boiled beef. Oh, and of
                 course, Wiener Schnitzel.
Getting there:   Austria borders no less than eight Countries <a href="#footnote-body.3" name="footnote-link.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>, so there
                 is a lot of choice as to where you enter. Italy usually
                 proves to be the cheapest if travelling by train. What
                 it doesn't have is any coastline, making sea-travel tricky.
Getting around:  The hitching is good in Austria, the trains are expensive.
Peculiarities:   Chris Tann spends his birthday there once every 20 years <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.
</pre>
</div>
