---
layout: "article"
title: "Financial Freedom"
subtitle: "Advice For The Wannabe Seriously Rich Person"
author: "Rick Yagodich"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R35"
permalink: "articles/6R35"
pgg_date: "1995/05/06"
article_date: "1995/05/06"
alternative_title_1: "Entrepreneurism"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1995-05-06 00:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Before I begin a discussion on the subject of financial freedom, I believe that I ought to explain what it is. Take the following, for example (all figures are in pounds sterling - adjust as appropriate for your local currency).</p>
<p>If you were to increase your income next month by 1 pound, without doing any more work, most likely you would not notice the difference. Nowadays, it's not even enough to buy a drink at your local watering hole.</p>
<p>Imagine then that the increase were not 1 pound, but 10 pounds still without going out of your way to "make" it. Again, the increase is very unlikely to be enough for you to notice it, though it is enough to take yourself out once - maybe to see that film you couldn't afford to before.</p>
<p>The next step is more interesting, but still not anything fascinating: an extra 100 pounds per month coming in whether you like it or not - simply appearing in you bank account on the first (or whatever other) day of each and every month.</p>
<p>Doubtlessly, this would make a difference to your lifestyle. It would pay off those bills that always seem to be left over at the end of the month - if, and this is a very big if for most people, you can budget your money effectively. Maybe it would allow you to move to a larger home - an extra 100 pounds per month in mortgage repayments substantially increases the size of place you can get - or just pay off the one you are already living in. Who knows, but there are not too many people for whom it would not make at least a small difference.</p>
<p>Guess what, we now move to 1000 per month. No, it's not a huge amount of income, but for the majority of the population, it isn't too far off what they get paid anyway. This sort of automatic residual income is more than just money: it is one of two other things, depending on what you choose to do: either it is security, a cushion that will protect your lifestyle should you become unable to perform the tasks that produce your primary income; or it is time. If your job does not pay this much, and yet you have this sort of money coming in on the side, there comes a point where it is somewhat un-economical to continue with the job.</p>
<p>Take a moment to think about it (and if you need to up it by a factor of 2 or 3, who's counting?) How would it change your life if you had a second income, equal to your primary income, that you did not have to perform for: an income that would find its way into your bank account if you made it out of bed or not? Would you continue working as you do, but live elsewhere, driving a nicer car (not that the car you presently drive isn't nice...), or take holidays in less crowded, sunnier places with finer sand? Would you tell your boss that you were only prepared to do (short) shift work, so you could get up when you felt like it, and head home on your own command? Or perhaps you would pick up the phone one morning and call in well ("Well, I ain't coming in no more.")</p>
<p>I do not know what you would do, but your mind has probably already found a way to spend that extra 1000 every month. In deed, it is certainly not difficult to spend that sort of money.</p>
<p>So we move on: 10000 each and every month!!</p>
<p>This is easily enough to make most people decide to give up work (except the ones who have accumulated debt / overdraft / mortgage / etc in amounts that would make most "normal" people sick. True, there are some people who earn in excess of this amount, but how many of them have any <em>time</em>? How many of them have spent a whole day (with the possible exception of a Sunday) with their family in the last month? How many people earning six figure annual incomes can afford to take a week or two off - on a whim?</p>
<p>Far be it from me to suggest that there are not people who have this level of freedom: indeed, they are the ones to look to for guidance in attaining financial freedom, but more of that later.</p>
<p>Time now to get "silly." Actually, it is not that I consider the next step silly, it is purely an increment of a factor of ten, like all the others, but for some reason many people fail to be able to imagine it. Whatever the case, it is the most fun one mentioned so far: 100000 per month - in excess of 1 million a year.</p>
<p>Too much money for one person? That is a question for someone else who is discussing ethics and beliefs, but if it is earned, there is no reason to say it is too much for a single person. And let's be really honest here, if that were your income, how much would you give away? (And anyone answering all - or almost all - of it is either angelic, foolish, or unaware of just how much 1.2 million is: you might give it away for the first few months, but not for all that long.)</p>
<p>So, what would you do with this sort of residual income. Where would you live? You would not have to wait more than a few short months to buy at least a starting house in your location of choice. What car would you drive? Half a year would (almost) buy you a McLaren F1, the most expensive (as far as I know) car commonly available - yes, there are antiques and other non-production cars that cost more, but they are a totally different category. Where would you take your holidays? And how often?</p>
<p>What would you do with all that time?</p>
<p>Who would you help?</p>
<p>Let's face it, would you bother about your gas and electricity bills? (or would you just pay off the next ten years in advance to save yourself a bit of hassle?)</p>
<p>When shopping for clothes, would you finally look at what you are buying, or would you keep looking at the price tag to decide whether or not you like something? In restaurants, would you look down the right hand column first (as you do now), or would you decide what you want to eat, and not worry about the size of the bill?</p>
<p>If you have ever thought that rich people were materialistic, find one and ask him/her. If they have worked for their money (lottery winners are not rich - or won't be for more than a few short years - and certainly didn't work for it), most of them are not. They enjoy toys: everybody likes toys, it's just that they can afford the ones everyone else just drools over.</p>
<p>As an example, if two people - one a multi-millionaire and the other your average Joe - both crashed their cars, who would be more upset? The millionaire, who wrote off a 100000 pound Ferrari, or Joe, who's beat up old banger was worth twice as much when he filled it up with petrol? (It is those who don't have much who value the little the can get so highly: it is they who are really materialistic).</p>
<p>So, back to the idea of financial freedom. Just what is it? To put it simply, it is having enough money coming in, that you <em>no longer</em> need to work for, that you can buy back your <em>time</em>, and you can create true <em>security</em>.</p>
<p>Of course, a definition of security would be helpful here. Security is being in a position whereby whatever happens to you, you have previously established a solid financial net for yourself and your family. How many jobs are secure? If a pilot's eye-sight shows even the slightest signs of deteriorating, he is out in the cold before he knows it. If a doctor looses the use of a hand and can no longer perform operations, his enviable salary goes flying out the window. Anyone else who becomes incapacitated in any way will find that, according to their boss, they "are no longer capable of performing their job to a satisfactory degree that they are worth employing."</p>
<p>Security is being in a situation whereby whatever the external events, it makes no difference to your lifestyle.</p>
<p>(Some people think that pension plans and insurance policies are the answer to their security worries, and I would not wish to say anything that would denigrate the very useful service these people provide: I simply must ask at this point, how secure are these plans. Are you, as an investor, the one controlling what happens to your money, or could the company involved belly up and die?)</p>
<p>Financial freedom is a degree of personal freedom that most people never experience; not because there is anything stopping them, but because they do not understand the difference between price and cost. Price is a one- off amount. Cost is a long-term pricing system, based on usage, or overall expense.</p>
<p>What I mean by this is that the average person will work for about 45 years, at (for simplicities sake) 50 weeks a year, putting in 40+ hours each and every week. This is only 8 hours a day, but it adds up. It totals 90000 hours, with nothing to show for it at the end. The "price" is low - just another eight hours - but the cost is life (the statistics on people's abilities to support themselves once they reach retirement age make for shocking reading).</p>
<p>The alternative is to go out and do something different from the masses (more on that later). It is usually assumed that the entrepreneur will work anything from 12-18 hours per day, 6 or seven days a week (let's take 100 hours a week as an average), for all 52 weeks in the year (but for simplicity of calculations, let's say 50 again).</p>
<p>That means that one year for the entrepreneur is 5000 hours. If it takes him a whole eighteen years to build up a business that is self-sufficient and no longer requires him to put in any of his time (and most achieve at least semi-profitable stability after 5-10), then time-wize he will be equal with someone who had a job, except that he finished 27 years ahead!! - and is most likely making far more.</p>
<p>In other words, though the day by day price of living a normal life, with a job, is perhaps lower, the cost far exceeds that of seeking financial independence. Which would you rather: to put in twice the effort now so you can play for the rest of your life, or spend every week looking forward to Saturday until finally you retire with not only not enough money (or the health) to enjoy it, but not enough money to keep you in the lifestyle you were previously accustomed to.</p>
<p>Thus the great question that is bound to be asked: "So Rick, what do I do to become financially independent?"</p>
<p>There are probably as many answers as there are people who will ask that question, and I have no intention of listing any of them. All I will suggest, (having heard it time and again from people who have achieved financial independence on a massive scale) is that you read positive books, listen to inspirational tapes, and attend self-development and other motivational functions. Also, if there is someone who is already successful in the area you finally choose for yourself, go to them as a student, learn from them, learn from their mistakes, model yourself after them.</p>
<p>Do what the average person in the streets is not prepared to do. Get out of your rut (a rut is nothing but a grave without ends). Be like the 5% who can afford to enjoy their lives when they reach retirement age.</p>
<p>Now, I am in no position to give a list of good generic tapes (the ones I listen to are specific to what I am doing in my pursuit of financial independence), but I can recommend some books (in no particular order - asterisk (*) indicates must-reads for everyone even vaguely interested in some level of higher success, but then, they're all good).</p>
<blockquote>The Magic of Thinking Big*, David J Schwartz<br>
How to Win Friends and Influence People*, Dale Carnegie How to be Rich, John Paul Getty<br>
Millionaire Mentality, Dexter Yager<br>
Awaken the Giant Within, Anthony Robbins<br>
Do It!, John-Roger and Peter McWilliams<br>
Unlimited Wealth, Paul Zane Pilzer<br>
Over the Top, Zig Ziglar<br>
The Popcorn Report, Faith Popcorn<br>
Any (auto)biographies of highly successful people. Anything recommended to you by someone who has what it is you truly desire.</blockquote>
<p>That's all from me on the subject of financial freedom, at least for tonight. All that remains for me to say is this: I'll see you at the top, on the beaches of the world, whichever route you choose to take.</p>
<p>Dare to live your dreams. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

