---
layout: "article"
title: "Fast Food"
subtitle: "Fast food, What Is It, And Some Warnings"
author: "Johan C. Roraback"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R47"
permalink: "articles/6R47"
pgg_date: "1995/10/31"
article_date: "1995/10/31"
alternative_title_1: "Chain Restaurants"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1995-10-31 01:00"
see_also:
  - 8R2
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Humans seem to be fascinated with a concept they call fast food.</p>
<p>The idea is not a bad one; walk into a restaurant tell them what you want, get it, pay and start eating in less than 5 Earth minutes.</p>
<p>Strangely enough this seldom happens.</p>
<p>One enters one of these establishments, explains to the being behind the counter that one wishes to have ground up pieces of a dead bovine heated up until burnt, placed on a construct of ground grain, bovine breast-feeding solution, dead animal or plant fat, avian embryonic fluid, and bacteria, heated until fluffy and solid, with the usual condiments.</p>
<p>One also states that one wishes to have some tubers boiled in oil, and a liquid infused with carbondioxide, saturated with sugar, containing a caramel color and a drug know as caffeine.</p>
<p>One gives the serving being some green paper.</p>
<p>One waits, and waits and waits.</p>
<p>The restaurant being then tells you that if you sit down your sustenance will be brought right to you in a few Earth minutes.</p>
<p>One waits. One waits more. One gets extremely hungry. One starts losing mental function. One forgets where they, why they are here and what they ordered. A being then brings your sustenance to you. You open up the plant fiber wrappers and discover what they claim is your order.</p>
<p>You accept it and eat it reluctantly rather than go through this all again as they try to correct your order.</p>
<p>There are other scenarios that may occur but eating fast food is simple if you remember the following rules.</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">What you say you want is not what they hear you saying.</li>
<li value="2">What you get is not what you ordered.</li>
<li value="3">What you pay is more than the sum of the totals of the prices of what you ordered.</li>
<li value="4">Your food will be ready just as your patience runs out.</li>
<li value="5">The food will not look as impressive on the plate as it did in the picture.</li>
<li value="6">The smiling people behind the counter are not really friendly.</li>
<li value="7">The drink you want will not be available.</li>
<li value="8">Anyone who does not look human will not be welcome.</li>
<li value="9">Never use a restroom there unless absolutely necessary.</li>
<li value="10">Never look to closely at your food.</li>
</ol>
</div>
