---
layout: "article"
title: "Inge Von Auchne, Little Known Writer"
subtitle: "You&apos;ve Never Heard Of Him, And For Good Reason"
author: "Johan C. Roraback"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R48"
permalink: "articles/6R48"
pgg_date: "1995/10/31"
article_date: "1995/10/31"
alternative_title_1: "Someone You Will Never Hear Of Outside Of The Guide"
alternative_title_2: "Having A Rock In Your Head"
alternative_title_3: "Writing Stories"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1995-10-31 01:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Inge von Auchne is a not so famous author. He is not famous for two good reasons:</p>
<pre>
1.  Inge von Auchne is a silly pen name.
2.  Inge has never written anything that anyone would ever consider worth
    publishing.
</pre>
<p>Inge seems to have a very relaxed writing style. When asked how he writes he responded that when he feels like writing all he does is sit down, put a pencil to paper and write.</p>
<p>He writes whatever comes into his head. He described it as subconscious writing. To write subconsciously one sits in front of writing utensils and lets one's mind wander, and when one's mind is done wandering one's story is done being written.</p>
<p>Using this method Inge says that his writings don't really fit set definition of style. He says that he writes stories, not science fiction, not fantasy, not westerns, etc... What he writes are stories, just stories, and if they fit someone else's definition of a type of story then that is their problem.</p>
<p>Inge does very little writing other than his stories. He says that he often writes letters but is seldom happy with what they say so he doesn't send them.</p>
<p>Inge finds a great deal of satisfaction when he finishes writing something. Most would feel that this is strange, because when many authors write they enjoy the act of writing more than they do the act of finishing. They see writing as an enjoyment not as a duty. Inge Believes that it is the other way around.</p>
<p>Inge described the need to write as like having a large rock in your head, and finishing a writing project as not having a large rock in your head.</p>
<p>Inge often talks about a high school writing assignment he had, where he decided to write a book. He got the first forty pages done, and then turned the story into his English teacher who told him that his story was "shit", and that he couldn't write well to save his life. Naturally that made Inge angry, and he never talked to that teacher again. Inge admits he did recently reread his story and discovered that the English teacher was right.</p>
<p>Inge says that the hardest part of writing for him is deciding what to write. When one writes for pleasure one can write what one wishes and at one's own pace, with assignments it is different. One has no choice about when and how so the choice of subject and length is somewhat restricted.</p>
<p>Inge often gets simple ideas, or thoughts that take no time to think but take hours to express or pages and pages to write.</p>
<p>Inge feels that although an Idea can become boring that one should never rush the writing of the idea because that often causes one to lose that idea, or to ruin it.</p>
<p>Inge gave several examples of ideas that an author killed. Don Quixote was one example. It is a great story but the author seems just to get tired at the end, so he kills off the main character and the story ends. That is not an ending worthy of the piece.</p>
<p>Another example is Monty Python's Search for the Holy Grail. It is a good movie, but just when it gets good and you get interested with it, it ends and you feel cheated.</p>
<p>Just as anyone who gets into this article feels when it ends now. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

