---
layout: "article"
title: "Steamships"
subtitle: "What You Have To Experience If You Visit Stockholm, Sweden, Earth"
author: "Henrik O A Barkman"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R50"
permalink: "articles/6R50"
pgg_date: "1995/09/22"
article_date: "1995/09/22"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1995-09-22 00:00"
see_also:
  - 1R1
  - 2S10
  - 2R81
  - 2R169
  - 2R68
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>About three-quarters of the surface of the planet known as Earth is actually not covered with what the inhabitants of that planet call "earth", but rather a strange liquid substance consisting of oxygen and hydrogen. This substance is known among the Earthlings as water, and the water-filled areas are called "seas" or "rivers" or a number of other names depending on the structure of that particular area.</p>
<p>Most inhabitants of the planet can't travel over water without aid from some kind of vessel. One person was actually able to walk on water, 2000 years ago, and he is still famous for that feat. The rest build "ships" for their travel. However, the ships need to be propelled somehow, and due to a beautiful coincidence water can be used in that process as well. If a certain amount of water is heated, it will cease to be liquid and become gaseous, increasing its volume. If the water is heated in a container - sealed except for one hole - a jet of vapour ("steam") will result. The kinetic energy in that jet can be harnessed and utilized in making the ship move water in the direction opposite to the preferred direction of movement. One side effect of doing so is that the ship will move as well, in the other direction.</p>
<p>Since the invention of the steam engine other types of engines have been devised. They may be simpler in construction, or more efficient in the conversion of chemically bound energy, but in my opinion they lack the "soul" of a good old steam engine with its rhythmic combination of sounds and motions. Some people claim that a steam engine should be fed with stored energy of a particular form, most often wood or coal. I'm not that picky. Wood, coal, oil or even a nuclear reactor - it's still a steam engine. The "four elements" of ancient Earth lore are present, and in harmony. Earth (wood or coal), air (steam), water (liquid water) and fire (burning fuel).</p>
<p>Now, where would a hitch-hiker go to see and experience the beauty of a steam ship? The obvious answer would be the local harbour (a place where ships every now and then go to have contact with solid earth and load fuel, cargo and some occasional passengers). This will, however, most likely not be the case, since most steamships have been taken out of business and/or converted to use some other type of engine. This is a terrible shame, but fortunately there are surviving steamships in some places on Earth. Istanbul in Turkey is said to have the largest number of steamships.</p>
<p>I have never been to Turkey, so I will tell you some more about number two on the list: Stockholm, Sweden.</p>
<p>Stockholm is the capital of a country known as Sweden, and is also - at least among its steamship captains - known as the steamship capital of the world. You will find that several steamships are running westward on Lake Maelaren and eastward in Stockholm's archipelago in the Baltic Sea. At least they are running in the summer. These steamships are parts of a living tradition of communication among the thousands of inhabited islands of the area. What you have to watch out for, however, is the modern landing craft type of ships, designed to take the maximum number of passengers to a destination in a minimum amount of time. They are no fun at all, except possibly to poke fun at...</p>
<p>With a little luck, you will find a ship with a captain (or more likely a tourist guide) who will tell you about the history of the places you pass by. There are about one thousand years of ever-changing war and peace and other interesting episodes to tell about.</p>
</div>
