---
layout: "article"
title: "Pubs, How To Deal With Them"
subtitle: "What Every Hitchhiker Needs To Know"
author: "Paul Presley"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R52"
permalink: "articles/6R52"
pgg_date: "1995/12/20"
article_date: "1995/12/20"
alternative_title_1: "Pub Crawls"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1995-12-20 01:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<h3>Organising a night out</h3>
<p>Organisation is the key to any successful night. However it is well known that after five or six pints of Scruttocks Old Dirigible, the brain becomes incapable of organising anything other than where the next drink is coming from. This is especially true of a pub crawl. You may make a list of the venues you wish to visit but after the third or fourth stop you're more likely to find yourself trying to order six pints and a packet of crisps in the local launderette than the Dog and Duck.</p>
<p>You can take steps to ensure that your evening is relatively trouble free though. For instance, try to make sure that your clothing does not resemble the strip of any major football/local sports team as you can rest assured that you will run into a gang of rival supporters somewhere along the line.</p>
<p>Don't have people arranging to meet you in different pubs at different times. You will not make those appointments and no one's reserve measurements of hoopiness survives the ignominy of drinking alone in a major city.</p>
<p>Secure five to ten pounds in a sock or other suitable hiding place to use a cab fare at the end of the night. Cabbies don't appreciate driving you right across town only to hear how you must have bought one round too many as your financial supplies have run out. Of course there are some who maintain an evening's drinking is only successful if it does ends in a court case so personal judgement is required here.</p>
<h3>How to avoid buying a round</h3>
<p>It is said that a true hitchhiker never pays for a drink. Over the years experienced drinkers have developed many cunning ways in which to avoid buying a round, each a personal testimony to the creator's skill. To print a complete list of avoidance tactics would take a complete book (see the forthcoming Plastered On The Price Of A Bus Fare - also by this author), but here are a few of the most common methods:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">When a large party enters a pub it will inevitably divide into two groups. Make sure you stand in the middle of the two groups and under no circumstance make it obvious to which group you belong. If asked say you just bought a round for the other side. When an order request comes round from either side just mention whatever your drinking choice is with an air of complete indifference and it should slip in. Masters of this tactic are able to time things so that one group is always delivering just as the previous one's drink runs out.</li>
<li value="2">As the night draws on and people's perceptions begin to blur, try to be in a position where you are able to continually swap seats or positions without making it obvious. If the group has any sense they will be trying to run things in a clockwise order so make sure you remember who paid last and try to be sitting on their right hand side when the time comes.</li>
<li value="3">Never use the "going to the toilet" trick. Once a classic tactic, this has now been used so many times that everyone is familiar with it. What will usually happen is that the group will get the order ready for you, wait for your return and then give it to you "seeing as how you're up anyway". Skilled drinkers are able to reverse this tactic though and lay the round off on someone who has just gotten up for a true call to nature.</li>
<li value="4">A tactic for the early part of the evening is to make sure you are the one who organises the night. When calling your friends/bank rolls, ensure they arrive at regular intervals of fifteen to twenty minutes (depending on your drinking speed). It is a well known fact that when someone enters a pub after others have arrived their first words will be "Hi, what can I get you?" Successful timing (and punctual friends) should ensure a steady stream of drinks for the first couple of hours.</li>
<li value="5">Finally, Set up a kitty at the start of the evening and appoint yourself "treasurer". With luck you should be able to buy your drinks from the change left over from everyone else's money.</li>
</ol>
<h3>Being served in</h3>
<p>Tips on being served in a major city pub.</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">If you are with a group of friends, always write down the order on a scrap of paper/napkin/back of a match-box. Failure to perform this simple task will inevitably lead to one person getting a pint of the wrong lager, one person unwillingly drinking soft drinks all night and a collection of "half a Guinness's" in the middle of the table that nobody ordered.</li>
<li value="2">Every pub counter contains a number of "blind spots" - areas that render a person invisible to the serving staff. These are commonly located at the corners, behind supporting pillars and on top of the access hatch. It is not unheard of for a customer to enter a pub in the afternoon, set up residence over a blind spot and not be served until the landlord declares "Time gentlemen please".</li>
<li value="3">The best way to be served is to locate the largest group of people at the bar, push your way through to the front, start waving a ten pound note around and pretend to be memorising an order for the group. Staff should be fighting their way towards you. In some large pubs this has been turned into a popular sport. A group will place bets on members of the bar staff, a member of the group will approach the bar in this fashion and the winner is the person who correctly identifies the eventual staff member.</li>
</ol>
<!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END-->
</div>

