---
layout: "article"
title: "Scramble Bands"
subtitle: "Not Marching To The Beat Of A Drummer"
author: "Evan &quot;Paradox !-)&quot; Macbeth"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R55"
permalink: "articles/6R55"
pgg_date: "1995/10/08"
article_date: "1995/10/08"
alternative_title_1: "Scatter Band"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sun, 1995-10-08 00:00"
see_also:
  - 7R6
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>You are sitting in the stands watching an American football game in the Ivy League, or at Stanford, or at Rice, or at UVa (these schools being the American equivalent of a Sorbonne or Oxford.) Halftime begins and instead of going for food, you stay to see the Band perform on the field. Much to your surprise, the band that takes the field is not marching, is not in a formation and is not wearing polyester uniforms. As a matter of fact, when this band takes the field you have never seen anything so like anarchy. They run around like maniacs, screaming, shouting and generally causing a ruckus. Being educated, you think that this is what Hobbes had in mind when he visualized the "state of Nature". What you are witnessing is a Scramble (or Scatter) Band.</p>
<p>Scramble bands do not march. They scatter or scramble onto the field and into formation. This involves running around, hamming it up and generally acting very crazy, childish and/or hyperactive. The general format of a scramble show involves scattering, simple formations, music, and most significantly, jokes. Scatter band shows have jokes as an inherent and fundamental part of their format. These jokes are often controversial and somewhat offensive (especially to the opposing team). A formation and song immediately precedes or follows a joke, and usually will relate to the joke.</p>
<p>Another unique aspect of Scramble bands is their instrumentation. Scramble band "musicians" can often be found playing such items as mailboxes, kazoos, bagpipes, cellos and violins, oboes and perhaps scaffolding, all on the field. Indeed, ANYTHING can be a scramble band "instrument". Scramble bands do use traditional instrumentation for their music, trumpets, drums, saxes etc. The songs' instrumentation is simply expanded to accommodate the other "instruments".</p>
<p>Uniforms of scatter bands are not your typical polyester, strange color combination, pseudo-military costumes of marching bands. Rather they are generally a comfortable set of pants and shirt combination which is formalized, and a jacket (Ivies) or vest (UVa) ofttimes covered in buttons capped off by each individual's idea for a hat.</p>
<p>Scramble Bands were originated in the Ivy League in the early 60s. Harvard had the first Scramble Band. The style spread throughout the Ivy League in the ensuing decades. (Only Cornell still marches.) In the 60s that most infamous of Scatter bands, Stanford, was formed. The University of Virginia's Pep Band started scrambling in 1974. Rice and the University of California at Davis also started scrambling.</p>
<p>There are two or three things which differentiate scramble bands from other field bands on a quintessential level. The first is size. Scramble bands, with a few notable exceptions, are only made up of 100 people, tops. (Many have much less.) One of the largest Scramble bands, at UVa, has 140 active members during the height of football season. With such a small size, scramble bands are very close knit organizations. Usually a self-contained social system in and of themselves. The second thing is which schools have Scramble bands. All the Ivies (except for Cornell), Stanford, UVa, UCal at Davis, and Rice. These are among the traditional top schools in America. With the possible exceptions of Stanford, Rice and UVa, athletics is not as much an emphasis as academics at these institutions, and this is reflected in the nature of their bands. Marching bands practice upwards of 10 hours each week. A very dedicated scramble band will practice perhaps 6 or 7.</p>
<p>The third factor is Scramble bands' ability to have a good time anytime, anywhere, but especially with each other. There is a palpable brotherhood or family among the scramble bands. They really fundamentally enjoy spending time with each other. In 1994, a new tradition called Cyberfest was founded among the Scatter bands on the East coast. Each summer, various members of the East coast scramble bands get together and party for three or four days. Often, one band's halftime show will have some other band's scrambling membership in it. Road trips to and from each other's schools is a well established phenomenon. And scramble bands can have a good time anywhere. By definition, where there's a scatter band, there's a party. Be it on a road trip to a football game, or snowed in a dorm with three or four band members in it, these band members will find a way to have a good time, together.</p>
<p>Scramble bands are often mired in controversy and are usually only a couple of steps away from being disbanded (excuse the pun) by their school's administration. Usually student-run, some scatter bands, such as Stanford, have been forced to accept an administration appointed director. The Virginia Pep Band chose to leave the football stadium rather than give up scrambling and they fought for their right to scramble from outside, eventually regaining the field, and maintaining their scrambling style. Perhaps the hitchhiker remembers the news story about the Stanford band playing outside of the OJ trial in 1995. This is about typical scramble band behavior.</p>
<p>Advice For Hitchhikers:<br>
If you find yourself with a scramble band, or in the near vicinity of one, your best course of action is to enjoy yourself to the best of your ability. Jokes, insults and a sense of humor are greatly appreciated among scramble bands. If you play your cards right and impress them you may be able to</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">scatter on the field with them (your towel will serve nicely as an "instrument")</li>
<li value="2">mooch alcohol off them.</li>
<li value="3">mooch a bed off them.</li>
</ol>
<p>If you become truly accepted in the scramble band community (by either joining a band or seriously impressing a band for an extended period) you will be able to find housing and hospitality all round the United States at schools with scramble bands as one band will be able to recommend you to others and give you names of people to contact.</p>
<p>Under no circumstances mention marching around a scramble band.</p>
<p>Under no circumstances allow yourself to pass out in the vicinity of Virginia Pep Band member George Weilacher.</p>
</div>
