---
layout: "article"
title: "Wheelchair, Getting Out Of A"
subtitle: "The Second Most Important Point About Being In A Wheelchair"
author: "Robert Garland"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R77"
permalink: "articles/6R77"
pgg_date: "1996/06/07"
article_date: "1996/06/07"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1996-06-07 00:00"
see_also:
  - 6R74
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "Editor 8: If this puzzles you, go back to the &quot;Wheelchairs&quot; article and read the summary at the end of it."

---
<div>
<p>This item in the story of wheelchairs is not a particularly funny bit, and so we will dwell on it only briefly. There are some who believe there is a reason for everything, and that those who have been put into the wheelchair by whims of fate should be content in knowing that they are alive at all, and should appreciate life for what it is. Those people need to have their heads examined, preferably just after a large, heavy object has fallen upon it.</p>
<p>However, they are not completely off course. Being in a condition which necessitates a wheelchair allows one to reflect on the speed one has been going through life. Up until that point, many who were at one time not in need of a wheelchair didn't really spend enough time relaxing. They were skiing, bobsledding, mountain climbing, driving a car, house cleaning, horseback riding, hiking, hitch-hiking, or any number of other activities.</p>
<p>They may or may not have been enjoying life. They may or may not have been stopping every now and then to smell the roses. Regardless, being confined to a wheelchair forces one to stop and smell the roses, and appreciate life from a new vantage point. It gives them <em>an excuse</em> to stop and smell the roses, and sometimes that in itself is a disguised blessing.</p>
<p>Most who become confined to a wheelchair only realize this after a long period of time in which they refused to accept the responsibility of the first most important point about being in a wheelchair. However, by the same token, just because life tells you to slow down, doesn't mean you give up trying to get back to your comfortable cruising speed. If ever an opportunity arises where with the proper exercise, equipment, help and self-determination one can get out of the wheelchair, all efforts should be put towards that endeavor, so long as these efforts do not interfere with the most important point. In fact, the pursuit of the second most important point could and should be a pursuit of the first most important point, or else one will feel worse than when pursuing the third most important point <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>There are many who would argue that being "confined" to a wheelchair in some ways actually allows you to go faster than before. This all depends upon:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">the speed at which you traveled through life prior to being in the wheelchair, and</li>
<li value="2">the speed at which you travel once confined to said chair.</li>
</ol>
<p>Stereotypically "b" is considered to always be slower than "a" but this is in all actuality only the case about half the time, and depends also on:</p>
<ol>
<li value="3">the attitude you are in both before and after.</li>
</ol>
<p>It does sound corny, but it's entirely up to you.</p>
<p>This Galactic Guide is not intending to leave out those people who are born in such a state as to be confined to a wheelchair, or those who for other reasons are incapable of even hoping to achieve the second most important point. For those users of wheelchairs, the object should be to concentrate on the most important point of being in a wheelchair. Everything else, including being angry at people not in wheelchairs writing long entries in Project Galactic Guide about people in wheelchairs, should be irrelevant.</p>
</div>
