---
layout: "article"
title: "Conversation Entry Point"
subtitle: "A Necessary Point To Enter A Conversation"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R95"
permalink: "articles/6R95"
pgg_date: "1997/07/02"
article_date: "1997/07/02"
alternative_title_1: "CEP Trigger"
alternative_title_2: "Triggers, Conversation Entry Point"
alternative_title_3: "Entry Point, Conversation"
alternative_title_4: "Point Of Entry To A Conversation"
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1997-07-02 00:00"
see_also:
  - 8R37
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "For various reasons. Usually because you overheard. Definitely not because you were earwigging, oh no!"

---
<div>
<p>If you find it difficult to start a conversation, what you are in need of is a "Conversation Entry Point" (or CEP). Basically, this is a point at which you can start, while seemingly continuing, a conversation. The idea runs thus: silence, CEP trigger used, conversation in full swing. It sounds simple, and it is.</p>
<p>All you actually need is the appropriate CEP trigger. This can be obtained easily from any previous conversation, and can then be used as a "follow up", as in: "You know what you were saying about (insert what-ever-it-was here)...?" Variations are possible, but this will allow you to immediately express further opinions, arguments, or whatever you want.</p>
<p>Of course, if you haven't partaken in a conversation already, you may have to pick a topical event that you and your companion are both aware of. Say, for example, a political scandal, or a sporting event. Something like "That (insert name of politician) was really stupid, wasn't (s)he!" Sometimes this will be unsuccessful - especially if your companion is not in the least bit interested.</p>
<p>Also, you may want to pick an entry point from another conversation in which you didn't participate, but are otherwise aware <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>. You may use the CEP trigger: "You know what you were saying to (whoever) about (whatever)?" This may work well, but on the other hand, you may aggravate a companion that doesn't like being "overheard".</p>
<p>Finally, you may be able to purchase a book of pre-prepared CEP triggers, which should be tailored to work in a whole variety of circumstances. On the other hand, you may not.</p>
</div>
