---
layout: "article"
title: "Drivers With Hats"
subtitle: "A Traffic Jam Phenomenon"
author: "Tom Elliott"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "6S1"
permalink: "articles/6S1"
pgg_date: "1994/08/21"
article_date: "1994/08/21"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sun, 1994-08-21 00:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>The phenomenon of traffic jams always being proceeded by slow and carefully driven cars with drivers wearing hats seems to be universal (at least in the Western world).</p>
<p>I had heard it applied throughout many countries... My question is <em>why</em>? Is there some sort of secret Hat Drivers Association where they all band together to spread confusion. Possibly the style of hat is a secret symbol, recognised only by other Hatted Drivers.</p>
<p>[SCENE: Hatted Drivers Australian HQ, Melbourne. An elderly man wearing one of those greenish cloth fishing hats is standing, watching a multitude of other elderly people, who in turn are watching computer screens, reading hard copy, and talking on telephones]</p>
<p>[Man wearing fedora comes running up, gasping]</p>
<p>Fedora Man: Sir! Just in. (Hands over a piece of paper). Leader: Good God - Traffic on the freeway moving clearly! Emergency stations! Deploy elite HD squad!</p>
<p>[Camera pans, showing the HQ springing to action, people yelling into phones, typing furiously on computers.]</p>
<p>[Scene 2: Elderly gent's home. Elderly man is sitting reading, when the "special" phone rings. Man picks up phone.]<br>
Voice On Phone: Hello, I was just looking for a box of pickles. Elderly Man: You'll find them in the swimming pool.</p>
<p>[A moment of silence as the codes are checked, then:]</p>
<p>Voice: We have a situation here, traffic is flowing freely on the freeway - something must be done <em>immediately</em>! We need you to rectify the situation. We're all counting on you, do your best.<br>
Man: I'm on it.</p>
<p>[Man walks to large ornate box in corner, opens it. A cloth hat is nestled inside. The cap is gently removed from the box.]</p>
<p>Man: Come on old boy, we've got work to do.</p>
<p>[Scene: Outside man's house. Sound of a supercharged engine and a roar of tires, and a powder blue Volvo screams out of the driveway, through two lanes of traffic, over a median strip, and towards the freeway.]</p>
<p>[Scene: Eight minutes later, Volvo is weaving gently from lane to lane, holding a steady 60 kph in a 100 zone, with left hand indicator going. Traffic is banked up for miles]</p>
<p>Enraged Driver: LOOK AT THAT BASTARD!!!! (Leans on horn.) Passenger: And he's wearing a goddam <em>hat</em>!</p>
<p>Hatted Driver: Calling HQ, situation is under control.</p>
<p>[Hatted driver waves to counterpart in ancient Morris Minor, also weaving erratically]</p>
<p>END.</p>
<p>The scary thing is, they exist.... No, honestly. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

