---
layout: "article"
title: "Qwerty"
subtitle: "Qwerty Made A Grammatical Correct Keyboard Into..."
author: "Rickard Andersson"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "6S3"
permalink: "articles/6S3"
pgg_date: "1995/02/23"
article_date: "1995/02/23"
alternative_title_1: "Keyboards"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1995-02-23 01:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>One day a very little known human being who we will call Qwerty, mainly because that was his name, made an unfortunate mistake. Mr Qwerty worked at the big, indeed very big, well to be frank quite huge and voluminous, company that designed and manufactured keyboards. The company, of course, did many other things than design and manufacture keyboards. They had lots of people doing research, marketing, lobbying, accounting, lunches, sales, programming and many more of these not so glamourous side-line occupations. Mr Qwerty however was working with the company's main product, keyboards.</p>
<p>So, one day when he was designing the new and ultra modern keyboard of the future, something happened. You have to remember that this was happened a long time ago when the future was bright and hadn't happened yet. Back then the keyboards were more logically designed thereby making them more dull and easy to use.</p>
<p>Well, to bring this subject one step forward, we now return to the day when Mr Qwerty made his mistake. He was, which has been mentioned before, working on a design for a new keyboard. Because of a terrible hangover Qwerty wasn't paying to close attention to his work. So when he was supposed to deliver his newly made keyboard design to his boss, he sadly fell down the stairs and crashed it on the floor. All the keys jumped out and he had to put them into his pocket. When Qwerty arrived at his boss's office, he just put the keys onto the keyboard and for fun started to arrange the keys so that they would form his name. He thought he should be recognised for his design and to see his own name on the keyboard felt rather good. After all he figured that his new design wouldn't last more than one year.</p>
<p>The big, indeed very big, well much too oversized and multigalactic, company started to produce the new Qwerty keyboard. They used all the expertise in their side-line occupations to sell the new design to the galactic market. When this new and hip keyboard was introduced, all the smaller and not quite so successful companies thought they would follow the trend. Everyone started to use Qwerty's design on their own keyboards. After all, the big, indeed very big, well I think you know how big I mean, company couldn't be wrong in marketing this new keyboard, could they? So, now we all how to use Mr Qwerty's design whether we like it or not. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

