---
layout: "article"
title: "Naps, The Most Convenient Time To Take"
subtitle: "The Best Time To Take A Break"
author: "Jeff Kramer"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "6S4"
permalink: "articles/6S4"
pgg_date: "1995/03/16"
article_date: "1995/03/16"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1995-03-16 01:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Naps are one of the few pleasures that cannot be synthesized in this world. There is synthetic food, synthetic beer, and even synthetic companionship, which has become the predominant industry on some of our rim planets. But, a highly dedicated team of scientists, after thirteen years of work, was unable to synthesize a good nap. Upon failure, the entire team was sent to their rooms and haven't been let out since. Therefor, we are still able to take in the wonder of a good nap, but for an hitchhiker, it is often difficult to find time for a nice snooze. Some of the best times for a nap are:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">On a bus. The gentle hum of the engine. The guy with 15 colors of hair sitting across from you, and his stereo, which is blasting out Disaster Area's newest mega-hit.</li>
<li value="2">On the subway. See #1.</li>
<li value="3">During heavy traffic on the freeway. See #1.</li>
<li value="4">In class. These can be some of the most restful and wonderful naps, since there is the danger is always in the air.</li>
<li value="5">Summer's day, on the coast, use your big towel as a hammock, swing lazily in the sun. Drink a pan-galactic gargle blasters or three. Soak in the harmful UV rays.</li>
<li value="6">At the computer. Soak in those harmful cosmic rays from your monitor as you drool on the keyboard.</li>
<li value="7">And of course, the most popular, while you're supposed to be doing something else.</li>
</ol>
<p>If you take advantage of these times, you will have much less stress in your life, and increase the time you can spend hitchhiking quite a bit. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

