---
layout: "article"
title: "Psychic Gravity"
subtitle: "Human Bodies Attracted By Empty Spaces, Lamp Posts, And Other Humans"
author: "Roel van der Meulen"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "6S5"
permalink: "articles/6S5"
pgg_date: "1995/02/13"
article_date: "1995/02/13"
alternative_title_1: "Gravity, Psychic"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1995-02-13 01:00"
see_also:
  - 2R21
  - 2R67
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Psychic Gravity is a phenomenon that most people aren't aware of yet. It explains a lot of other phenomena for which people have given different explanations, but quite wrongly so, as you will soon understand.</p>
<p>One of these phenomena is the situation where you are trying to pass through a relatively narrow gap and you feel the sides of it tugging at you. Consider for instance the situation where you're riding on your little bike and you have to manouvre between two cars which are standing close together, waiting for the traffic lights to turn green. Feel them tugging! Also remember the situation where you're walking on a crowded pavement and where you want to 1) avoid someone coming straight at you (only solved after more than three attempts) or 2) want to slide through that little gap between a lamp post and an oncoming pedestrian; you always bump into one of either. When you're drunk the force is stronger; then you're absolutely sure to crash against the lamp post or wind up in the arms of a disgusted and sober pedestrian.</p>
<p>Psychic Gravity also explains the phenomenon of vertigo. Vertigo isn't so much being afraid of heights as it is the realistic awareness that a force exists that, on the roofs of large buildings, on steep mountain paths and at the edges of abysses, pulls you to the edge and beyond. Here Psychic Gravity is the attractive force between a human body, or a brain, if you like to see it that way, and huge open spaces. The force also appears when you try to walk or cycle on the lining on the road or on a curb.</p>
<p>Psychic Gravity is also seen in the phenomenon of two human bodies, or their brains if you like, which are attracted to each other. This is often mistakingly called "love", but that is just a side effect. Physical Attraction is a far better term.</p>
<p>Now what to do about Psychic Gravity? The key to the solution is to know in Which case to do What. Disaster can occur when you apply the wrong solution. The two solutions are 1) Giving In and 2) Ignoring it.</p>
<p>In the first two cases above, it is best to ignore everything that causes the force, like the wide open spaces you can fall into and the very solid objects you can smash your face into. As the force is mental, it disappears when the focus is gone.</p>
<p>Of course in the second case you can also give in and jump off the edge, but then you hardly ever live to tell the tale. This 'giving in' is better used in the third case, the so called 'physical attraction'. It can tremendously improve your love life, whereas using the 'ignoring' solution may well damage it beyond repair, and mess up your social life a bit as well.</p>
<p>To summarize it: the important thing with Psychic Gravity is to know when to give in and when not to. I hope you have learned a great deal from this.</p>
<p>May the force be with and without you.</p>
</div>
