---
layout: "article"
title: "Earth Defence Shield"
subtitle: "One Already Exists"
author: "Roel van der Meulen"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "6S9"
permalink: "articles/6S9"
pgg_date: "1995/11/04"
article_date: "1995/11/04"
alternative_title_1: "Earth Defense Shield"
alternative_title_2: "Universe Defense Shield"
alternative_title_3: "Universe Defence Shield"
alternative_title_4: "Bad News For The Earth-Confined Hitchhiker"
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1995-11-04 01:00"
see_also:
  - 1R1
  - 1R8
  - 2R68
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "True! Recently the cooling systems of nuclear installations on board of Russian submarines suddenly stopped because there was no electricity; the navy had forgotten to pay the electricity bill. A nuclear meltdown, and a consequent destruction of most life on Earth, was narrowly avoided by forcing the electricity company at gunpoint to put the power on again [2]."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "Source: &quot;De Volkskrant&quot;, a big Dutch newspaper."

---
<div>
<p>Hitchhikers, if you want to get off this planet (Earth), don't bother sticking up your thumb towards the sky in the hope to hitch a hike from an extra-terrestrial spacecraft. "Why is that?", the more adventurous and optimistic hitchhikers might ask. Well, it's simply because, contrary to what many people have been led to believe, Earth is already equipped with a functioning (albeit weak) defensive shield against extra-terrestrial visitors. We all remember the billion dollar project by the United States government to put a grid of potent lasers around the Earth to defend the country against nuclear missiles. This "Star Wars" project never came to full realization, but it wasn't because they failed their mission. Their goal, namely, wasn't to put a functioning laser grid in space, but to divert attention from the grid that is already there (which was upgraded in the process).</p>
<p>For centuries, the governments of a variety of nations have known that the Earth is being visited by aliens. The people in power have always found the superior extra-terrestrial technology terrifying, especially because they can't get their hands on it. So they sought for a way within the grasp of us simple earthlings to put a "No Parking" sign for aliens outside the atmosphere. And they found one, using the activity at which the human race is superior: MAKING RUBBISH.</p>
<p>So a program was openly executed to find ways of reaching the upper atmosphere. Once this program was successful, all kinds of junk were put into space to form a grid where no spaceship could pass through without being damaged. The real goal of putting up an Earth Defence Shield was covered up by pretending that it was for scientific and communicative purposes. In that respect the project has had some wonderful side effects, advanced astronomical research, satellite television (although it is questioned if this side effect was a positive one), elaborate weather forecasts, burn resistant pans, matchbox toys, global positioning, etc. However, we mustn't forget what the effort was originally for!</p>
<p>The inner circle of the conspiracy boasts that they've had a definite first success of the shield already: the damaged UFO that crashed in Roswell, USA, in the summer of 1947. Critics subtly point out that that is a bit unlikely, because the date of the crash is just a little bit earlier than the launch of sputnik, the first satellite.</p>
<p>A definitive positive side effect of the Earth Defence Shield is that it is at the same time a Universe Defence Shield, a shield to protect the citizens of the Universe against human stupidity. Humans, after all, are the species who nearly destroyed the Earth because they forgot to pay the electricity bill <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>So now there are millions of pieces of debris in orbit around the Earth, ranging from splinters of paint hurling along with magnificent speeds, to whole rocket stages. So you can just forget about being picked up by an UFO, comprende?</p>
</div>
