---
layout: "article"
title: "Nebraska, USA, Earth"
subtitle: "A Dormant State In North America"
author: "Chris Stanfield and Shaun Torres"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "6U17"
permalink: "articles/6U17"
pgg_date: "1999/01/20"
article_date: "1999/01/20"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1999-01-20 01:00"
see_also:
  - 1R1
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "Ed.: Take part in our &quot;what the heck is the meaning of this sentence&quot; competition and win one of the many special prizes, including a free &apos;hike to Nebraska&apos; holiday!"

---
<div>
<p>Somewhere in the deepest, darkest region of North America, an unregarded state lies dormant. Nebraska, as many of you know, is the ancient Sioux word for "It doesn't really matter, any more than a whelk in a supernova". Nebraska was created to fill that nasty looking square hole on the map early in the 17th century. The pilgrims, of course, were too busy eating turkey to notice. It is a little know fact that a treaty signed in 1642, which is still in effect today, states that all citizens of Nebraska are subject to any spontaneous combustions or scalpings, which occur within its borders between August, 29 and August, 27 inclusive <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>From 1642 until 1942 Nebraska was declared a complete waste of time. It was at this time, in 1942, that several mormons decided to start a small city in western Nebraska. This failed miserably, and resulted in the eventual downfall of the Soviet Union, though nobody but the head professor at the Massachussets Institute of Technology is sure exactly how, and quite frankly, no one cares.</p>
<p>Although many tourists visit Nebraska, very few ever return home because most will change their religion and stay there doing odd jobs under the assumed name Mr. Peddleworthe. This has led to a drastic increase in the number of Peddleworthes in Nebraska and surrounding areas.</p>
<p>If you ever plan on visiting Nebraska, we recommend that you find something else to do with your time, before it's too late.</p>
</div>
