---
layout: "article"
title: "Luton, England, UK, Earth"
subtitle: "A Town In England"
author: "Ian Brown (not available by email)"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "7R1"
permalink: "articles/7R1"
pgg_date: "1995/09/25"
article_date: "1995/09/25"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1995-09-25 00:00"
see_also:
  - 1R1
  - 2R64
  - 2R71
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Luton is a small post-industrial town in the south of England. I describe Luton as "post-industrial," because it has lost much of the industry that helped to create it. The town is north of Hemel Hempstead and south of Bedford. Luton is accesible from the M1 (Junctions 10 and 11), and has two railway stations (Luton and Leagrave). Luton has grown greatly in recent years, with new housing estates being built on the periphery.</p>
<h3>Traveling Around Luton</h3>
<p>The two train stations let you travel between Luton's centre and it's suburbs. There are plenty of taxis available if you have a lot of money to spend during your travels. Touring Luton by private car can be ruled out due to the high amount of traffic. This leaves the bus system as the cheapest and most viable means of transport. When travelling on buses arm yourself with a timetable (this is a book which is meant to tell you when the buses are meant to turn up at the bus stops, but is often wrong) and a towel to prevent you from getting wet while waiting for a bus that will most likely be late.</p>
<h3>Pubs</h3>
<p>Luton has a great number of pubs, personal experiments will help you determine which is the best.</p>
<h3>Things To See In Luton</h3>
<p>There are lots of things to see in Luton, though most are both uninteresting and a great distance apart. Be prepared to wait for buses. A lot.</p>
<p>Here is a list:</p>
<pre>
Luton Hoo     - A stately home near junction 10 of the M1.
Wardown Park  - A park near the centre of Luton.
Luton Arndale - A shopping centre, formerly the largest indoor shopping
Centre          centre in Europe.
</pre>
<p>This is a very short list, mainly because to list everything would take a long time (though not as long as a list for London would take).</p>
<h3>Advice For Hitchhikers</h3>
<p>Know, or find, somebody who lives in Luton if you wish to stay the night. There are not very many hotels in Luton and the train station isn't very comfortable.</p>
</div>
