---
layout: "article"
title: "San Jose, California, USA, Earth"
subtitle: "Do You Know The Way?"
author: "Chris Tann, The"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "7R7"
permalink: "articles/7R7"
pgg_date: "1996/06/06"
article_date: "1996/06/06"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1996-06-06 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2R117
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "Real geeks don&apos;t need statistics."

---
<div>
<p>This sprawling, not-quite coastal city was once made famous by the dulcet tones of.... Well, I can't remember who actually sang it, but everybody knows the song, "Do you know the way to San Jose?" (La la la la-la, la la, la laaa la.) Well, people think they know it anyway -- I bet you can't actually remember more than the first two lines.</p>
<p>Now, why anyone would want to know the way there is somewhat of a mystery. Notable only for the higher-than-normal percentage of people with pocket protectors in the population, San Jose is similar to Los Angeles in its sprawl, but lacks the exciting bits like Disneyland and a high crime rate. Yes, this is the place where Messrs. Hewlett and Packard started inventing computers in their garages, probably because there was bugger-all else to do.</p>
<p>If you should find yourself caught short in San Jose - on a geeky business trip or some such - here are a few facts to help you cope:</p>
<pre>
Population:  Around one million - roughly 40% Hispanic, 40% Asiatic, and
             40% Geek <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.
</pre>
<pre>
Transport:   Despite the existence of a clean and reliable public transport
             system, most people rely on cars to get around.  Unfortunately,
             most of them try to do it at the same time, which is rather a
             pity for those of us that don't enjoy drowning in exhaust fumes
             for an hour on the way to work.
</pre>
<pre>
Sights:      Hmm, tricky one this.  If you're not keen on over-passes, then
             there's not an awful lot here for you.  If you must go look at
             something, try the "Winchester Mystery House."
</pre>
<pre>
Best Bar:    "San Jose Live," right in the middle of downtown San Jose.
             Perhaps the biggest bar in existence, here you can find
             everything from disco to piano bar, pool and pinball, with
             a good (over)dose of TVs showing sports.  Oh, and lots of
             wiggling bar-persons wearing tight/short skirts and/or shorts.
</pre>
<pre>
Worst Bar:   "O'sheas," a seedy little ex-Irish pub, on Union Avenue
             near Blossom Hill.  Good beer, cheap vinyl seats and a
             neo-unimaginative decor somehow give this bar a charm
             that it doesn't seem to deserve.  Try it!
</pre>
<pre>
Exchange     Most people use US dollars, although geeks often start
rate:        conversations with "So how are your shares doing?"
</pre>
<p>So, next time the "Do you know the way..." song starts up, you can reply with confidence "Sure, head south down 101 from San Francisco, get off at Brokaw, and you can't miss it!"</p>
</div>
