---
layout: "article"
title: "MOOs And MUDs"
subtitle: "Internet Distractions"
author: "Jeff Kramer"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R1"
permalink: "articles/8R1"
pgg_date: "1994/09/04"
article_date: "1994/09/04"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sun, 1994-09-04 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2R19
  - 2R181
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "On the Star Wars MUD, the help documents are in a thing called... the Hitchhikers guide to Star Wars MUD. Or something like that. To access the help files you type &quot;panic &lt;topic&gt;&quot; and they have some stuff from the guide. Pretty cool, eh?"

---
<div>
<p>MUDs, or Multi-User-Dimensions are some of the strangest places on the Internet. They range from the hairy (FurryMUSH) to the downright insane (LambdaMOO). Most MUDs are centered around a theme or ideal. Something like dragons, furrys, or Star Trek. There are a few that just say "Do whatever, just don't disturb anybody", like LambdaMOO. The usual way of connecting to a MUD is to Telnet there. From the Unix shell prompt type:</p>
<blockquote>telnet &lt;host&gt; &lt;port&gt;</blockquote>
<p>Hosts can be in the name format or the number format. A few hosts/ports are:</p>
<blockquote>lambda.xerox.com 8888<br>
casper.bga.com 6969<br>
128.2.116.75 4201</blockquote>
<p>You can find more by looking in the rec.games.mud.announce newsgroup.</p>
<p>There are a few commands you should know when you connect to a MUD; some of the most important are:</p>
<pre>
          who/@who            - Tells you who else is online.
          where/@where        - Tells you where others are
                                (on MOOs anyway).
          look                - Shows you the room, what's in it.
          look &lt;item&gt;         - Spits out a description of the item.
          "&lt;text&gt;             - On most MOOs/MUDs this is the way to talk.
          page &lt;user&gt; &lt;text&gt;  - Sends info to someone else not in the room
                                you're in (MOO command).
          help                - Gives help <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.
</pre>
<p>On MOOs you can @examine objects. That spits out the description and any verbs it might have. Very useful in finding out what something does.</p>
<p>When you connect to a MUD, it will usually present you with a</p>
<blockquote>Username:</blockquote>
<p>prompt. Sometimes you type "guest" and then "guest" for the password. On MOO's it just prints out a message asking you what you'd like to do. "connect guest guest" is usually what you want to do. If none of those work, type in what you'd like to be your username, and then the password you'd like. If all else fails, ask someone. Most people are friendly, although they do like to keep their RL (Real Life) to themselves.</p>
<p>Now, some useful acronyms/terms:</p>
<pre>
          IC           - In Character.
          OOC          - Out Of Character.
          RL           - Real Life.
          MOO          - Mud Object Oriented.
          MUD          - Multi User Dimension/Dungeon.
          Wiz/Wizard   - Guy/Guys who run the MUD.
          HP           - Hit Points, used on combat MUDs.
          ST           - Status.
          TF           - TinyFuge, a program that makes connecting with MUDs
                         easier and prettier.
          TS           - Tiny Sex, virtual sex.
          VR           - Virtual Reality.
          VS           - Virtual Sex.
          Idle         - How long you/they haven't been active.
          Connect time - How long you/they have been connected.
          AFK          - Away From Keyboard.
          BRB          - Be Right Back.
          Client       - A program that takes the place of telnet.
          Newbie       - New user.
</pre>
<p>A few things to remember:</p>
<ul>
<li>Nobody likes a whiner.</li>
<li>Don't interrupt. Some people take MUDing <strong>very</strong> seriously, and get very ticked at you if you go where you haven't been asked.</li>
<li>Some people are very private about their real life lives.</li>
<li>People are generally helpful, just ask nicely.</li>
<li>Don't be surprised by the kind of people you meet, and the kind of places you'll go.</li>
</ul>
</div>
