---
layout: "article"
title: "Paperless Office, The"
subtitle: "A Very Old Joke"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R19"
permalink: "articles/8R19"
pgg_date: "1996/02/29"
article_date: "1996/02/29"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1996-02-29 01:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>The paperless office was predicted to revolutionize the way we work and the way we learn, placing the work and education of the world into digital form, and laying the once popular paper medium to rest. However, as the facilities arrived for it to become a part of life, technology also produced its nemesis. This advance, known as a printer, offered us the chance to use the theoretically obsolete paper to give us a permanent and easy-to-read copy of the information we had purchased our computers specifically to store. Naturally, we obliged gratefully.</p>
<p>The reason for this is that the human race as a whole prefers not to have to read a large amount of text from a visual display unit (VDU) unless they really have to; a piece of paper is much easier to read, and can be taken to places that a computer has never even seen (or so the author believes.)</p>
<p>It has also been noted that a substantial quantity of human beings regard computers as unreliable, and would not trust them with so much as a scrap of information unless they really had to.</p>
<p>The paperless office has therefore since become the subject of much mockery, and it is very rare to find anyone who would champion it. Perhaps, though, the idea will grow with time, and maybe sometime in the future, this phase will be looked back on as a time of transition.</p>
<p>The author predicts that at least one person will print this article. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

