---
layout: "article"
title: "US Naval Abbreviations"
subtitle: "How The Navy Beats This Horse To Death"
author: "David Kraics"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R23"
permalink: "articles/8R23"
pgg_date: "1995/11/25"
article_date: "1995/11/25"
alternative_title_1: "US Navy Acronyms"
alternative_title_2: "Abbreviations, US Navy"
alternative_title_3: "Acronyms, US Navy"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1995-11-25 01:00"
see_also:
  - 2R181
  - 2S62
  - 2S61
  - 6R46
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "For instance: &quot;Hey, MM2!&quot;"
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "Thanks to Philadelphia Naval Base, Publications Command, Customer Service Dept. (PhilaNOB, PubCom, CusServDep) for the exact name and stock number of the Publication."
  - 3:
    number: 3
    text: "TN = The Navy."

---
<div>
<p>When it comes to making acronyms, no-one does it, or rather, overdoes it, like the US Navy. Allow me to explain. If it is an object, a place, or a title, it has been acronymized or abbreviated. Take the biggest Navy base in Virginia, for instance. Its full name is Naval Operating Base, Norfolk Virginia, but the Navy calls it NOB NorVa. The Navy likes to use three letter contractions in its abbreviations and uses them whenever it can. Destroyer Squadron becomes Desron. Cruiser, Destroyer Group becomes CruDesGru. There are some exceptions, of course. Lant is always used for Atlantic. That's right, kill the first two and last two letters. Makes sense to me.</p>
<p>Rank and titles are bad too. For instance, right after the Pearl Harbor bombing, the title of the commander-in-chief, US forces, was changed to Cominch from (now get this) CinCUS (i.e. SINK US). Commander or Command is Com, but the officer rank of Commander is Cdr., Commodore is Commo, Captain is Capt., Admiral is Adm., Lieutenant Junior Grade is Lt(jg). My rank, when I was in the Navy, was Machinist Mate second class (or petty officer second class), Enlisted Surface Warfare Specialist. The acronym for that is simply MM2(SW). I have even been called that <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>. By the way, don't be impressed with the Surface Warfare part. All it means is that I know enough about every part of my ship to be dangerous to her.</p>
<p>The Navy has so many acronyms and abbreviations that they have compiled a complete listing of every one used, and it is updated quarterly. This publication is called "Dictionary of Naval Abbreviations", Naval Stock Number (NSN) COMM 0509-LP-042-0708 <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>. I will end this article by including the acronym that most Naval officers hate and most enlisted sailors use: FTN <a href="#footnote-body.3" name="footnote-link.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>.</p>
</div>
