---
layout: "article"
title: "Typographical Errors"
subtitle: "It Only Takes One"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R30"
permalink: "articles/8R30"
pgg_date: "1996/04/28"
article_date: "1996/04/28"
alternative_title_1: "Typo"
alternative_title_2: "Errors, Typographical"
alternative_title_3: "Mistakes, Honest"
alternative_title_4: "Slip Of The Finger"
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sun, 1996-04-28 00:00"
see_also:
  - 8R24
  - 8R19
  - 2U53
  - 2R96
  - 8S4
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "Within reason, of course."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "It has been noted, that perfection has yet to be totally defined."
  - 3:
    number: 3
    text: "Though these are irregular occurrences, they have been used for humorous effect."

---
<div>
<p>Accuracy is perhaps one of the most sought-after things in the modern world, and has indeed been sought after for many years. While many people have excelled in the presentation of their writing in a way that can be easily read and understood by the relevant target audience, a major opposing force has come into being.</p>
<p>The world has long been aware of the benefits of computerisation in writing. Long drafts of writing which previously appeared on paper, only then on paper first, are now typed straight into a computer of some sort, where they can be edited, altered, corrected, and generally moved about, by whoever wishes to do so <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>With this advance, however, has arrived the regular problem of persistent typographical errors, which, unfortunately, spoil possible perfection <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>. These errors can arise from several areas. The main problem involves the classic finger-slip, which leads to the incorrect key being pressed. Other problems can come at a later stage, when the actual system you have obtained to transfer your computerised writings to paper, a printer for example, will make its own mistakes.</p>
<p>There are many examples of typographical errors, most of which go unnoticed by most, if not by all, in their complete lifecycle. When these are noticed, however, they are sometimes not identified as typographical errors, but rather as either deliberate mistakes <a href="#footnote-body.3" name="footnote-link.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a> or as accidents that are the results of ignorance.</p>
<p>Likewise, mistakes that have occurred through ignorance, or anomalies that have been deliberately slipped in, can subsequently and incorrectly be identified as typographical errors.</p>
</div>
