---
layout: "article"
title: "Cash Machines"
subtitle: "Electronic Plastic"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R35"
permalink: "articles/8R35"
pgg_date: "1996/06/24"
article_date: "1996/06/24"
alternative_title_1: "Instant Cash"
alternative_title_2: "ATMs"
alternative_title_3: "Automatic Teller Machine"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1996-06-24 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2S45
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "It&apos;s usually a good idea to have a reason to spend money before spending it, unless you are immensely rich, or know someone who is rich, and immensely stupid."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "Possession is said to be 9/10ths of the law, but the relevant institution will usually make sure that they still retain ownership."
  - 3:
    number: 3
    text: "Many banks have agreements that allow people to use cash cards at different banks."

---
<div>
<p>Picture yourself as someone who's alone late at night when the streets are empty, and the glow of the shop windows has died to a light flicker from the one on the corner where a solitary light has been left running in the vain hope that it might fool a burglar into thinking it's still occupied. If you are already in this situation, stay with the image you're getting, provided it is one of reality.</p>
<p>A problem to imagine, or be plagued with, at this point, is that of having no money to do whatever you wish to do <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>. This is where a cash machine can help you, providing, as it does, access to your funds, or potential future funds, at the press of a button (or three), all the time (unless it's broken).</p>
<p>The main "facility" comes in the form of a cash card, which is almost without exception a credit-card sized plastic card, usually containing a magnetic strip which holds information about its owner <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>, which can be inserted into many different cash machines at a variety <a href="#footnote-body.3" name="footnote-link.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a> of banks, and from there you must enter a PIN (Personal Identification Number) which will "confirm" your identity. After this, you are able to request the amount of money you wish to withdraw, and whatever other services the machine will offer.</p>
<p>These other facilities are varied, and many will depend on you using a machine that is owned by the particular bank you have your money in. The most common extra is the ability to check the balance in your account, which you can have printed on a small slip of paper or displayed on the screen, though sometimes you may not have a choice. More recently, some machines will actually allow you to have a mini-statement printed, showing all recent transactions, or allow you to request that the bank will post one.</p>
<p>The reason that these machines are able to work all the time, is because of the complex electronic computerised system inside, which is linked directly to the relevant banks. They are not, as some have speculated, manned by very patient dwarfs.</p>
</div>
