---
layout: "article"
title: "Beginner&apos;s Luck"
subtitle: "First Time Lucky"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R36"
permalink: "articles/8R36"
pgg_date: "1996/06/28"
article_date: "1996/06/28"
alternative_title_1: "Luck, Beginner&apos;s"
alternative_title_2: "First Time Fortune"
alternative_title_3: "Experience Meets Its Match"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1996-06-28 00:00"
see_also:
  - 8R24
  - 6S10
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "Or very close to, anyway."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "Perhaps even in the correct order."
  - 3:
    number: 3
    text: "Failure to do so could result in a whole string of verbal abuse."

---
<div>
<p>While experience forms the basis of excellence, and practice can push ability towards perfection <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>, a major phenomenon has continually forced little victories against this well-founded trend. This is called "Beginner's Luck".</p>
<p>An example of this is when someone may pick up a snooker cue for the first time in their life, and proceed to pot every single ball in sight <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> as if they've been playing for years, while their opponent, who has had some experience of the game, will remain speechless and idle except perhaps for a slight swaying of the lower jaw.</p>
<p>It is unclear how this actually works, as someone who's never done a particular task will doubtlessly have less of an idea of how it should be done. This in fact could be a contributive factor, as a beginner will not be hindered by past experiences, the customary pressure of "having to beat" someone who is less experienced than you <a href="#footnote-body.3" name="footnote-link.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>, and the confusion of "one-hundred-and-one" different contradictory theories of how it should be done.</p>
<p>If somebody is blessed with beginner's luck, as many are, they may be so lucky to develop this into a lucky streak when they decide to undertake this task again. It is more common, though, that they will find that initial moments of fortune soon become long-lost memories as the reality of the situation suddenly rears its ugly head.</p>
<p>Therefore, it is always a good idea to remember that if someone you know, say, takes their first turn on a computer game and gets the all-time high score, you can be reasonably sound in the knowledge that their next turn will prove a little more frustrating, as they begin to gain "experience".</p>
</div>
