---
layout: "article"
title: "Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa, Earth"
subtitle: "Sun, Sea, And A Bloody Great Big Mountain"
author: "Paul Morrison"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R75"
permalink: "articles/8R75"
pgg_date: "1997/09/13"
article_date: "1997/09/13"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1997-09-13 00:00"
see_also:
  - 1R1
  - 12S1
  - 8R59
  - 2R171
  - 6R52
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "The bit directly south of Cape Town that sticks out to sea."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "Guns, soldiers, ships, etc."
  - 3:
    number: 3
    text: "Road-worthy car, licensed driver, four wheels, you get the picture..."
  - 4:
    number: 4
    text: "Pavements, traffic lights, roundabouts, the centre of national roads, in fact, just about anywhere that you can be seen from the road."
  - 5:
    number: 5
    text: "Soccer, for the uninformed Americans."
  - 6:
    number: 6
    text: "The carnivorous fish species, not a large, white, money-lender."

---
<div>
<h2>Where?</h2>
<p>Cape Town is situated at the South-western tip of South Africa which, as its name suggests, is at the southern tip of Africa. It is a common error to assume that Cape Point <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> is the most southern part of SA. This is of course wrong, as the locals will be quick to point out. The honour of the most southerly part of Africa goes to Cape Agulhas, which is even more boring and not worth discussing further.</p>
<h2>People</h2>
<p>The population varies according to who you speak with. Currently it has been narrowed down to between 2 and 3.5 million. An official census has been taken, but by the time the results are released the figure will be terribly out of date.</p>
<h2>Table Mountain</h2>
<p>The first thing you notice when you visit Cape Town is Table Mountain. This is a very difficult thing to miss, much in the same way as it is hard to fail to see an elephant sitting in your kitchen. Table Mountain, despite its name, is a mountain shaped like a table, although I wouldn't look for any giant cups of tea on it (unless you go to the cafe/restaurant at the top). A popular activity is to wait in line for three hours to get a ride to the top of the mountain in the cable car. It is possible to book in advance for a place on the cable-car, and thus avoid the wait, but purists maintain that doing so ruins the experience.</p>
<p>The view from the top is very nice, showing the entire city, and on a clear day, the mountain ranges in the distance. The considerate hitchhiker must resist the awesome temptation to spit off the edge or start a small rock slide. The mountain is surrounded by the city, and those living or hiking below might not appreciate your gravitational experiments.</p>
<h2>Some History</h2>
<p>Cape Town was founded in 1652 by a Dutch chappie named Jan Van Riebeeck. The city was occupied by Holland, Britain, and France. Not, of course, at the same time. Cape Town was an important stop-over point for ships on their way from east to west, or the other way round. This resulted in the above three countries fighting for it (the city), until the Suez Canal was built and everyone packed up their toys <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> and went home.</p>
<h2>Places To See</h2>
<p>One place a hitchhiker must avoid at all costs is the Victoria and Alfred Waterfront. This is a tourist trap, repeat, a tourist trap. It is so effective that it even traps the locals. Everything is more expensive here, and cheaper wares can be found by going elsewhere.</p>
<p>If you do have spare funds available, there are actually a few good things to see at the V&amp;A Waterfront. The whole thing is actually built within the Cape Town Harbour, which is a fully functional and busy international port. If you want to see what goes on in a harbour, this is a good place to go with no risk of getting thrown out.</p>
<p>The two best things at the Waterfont are: the Two Oceans Aquarium, which has aquatic life from both the Indian and Atlantic oceans, and the IMAX cinema, which at the time this article was written, was the only such cinema in Africa. The tourist trap section of the Waterfront is the Victoria and Alfred Mall, which is a collection of speciality shops and restaurants, and the entire complex seems to double in size every few years. There are institutions such as the Hard Rock Cafe and Planet Hollywood here, with plans for more similar international companies to come in.</p>
<p>I would instead recommend walking around the centre of town to see all of the various shops and clubs, especially on Loop- and Long street. Unless you have a local to guide you, I would definitely insist that you do this during the day. If you are feeling particularly suicidal, or want to practice your fighting skills, you can try this at night, but of course I really wouldn't suggest you do this. Always make sure that you have organised transport home, as the taxis refuse to pick up passengers after about 7pm, and the late-night public transport systems are sporadic at best. Some taxi drivers will collect you after 7pm if you make arrangements with them in advance, and they don't suspect you of being a mugger.</p>
<p>Green Market Square and Greenpoint Stadium are good places to go to see what fell off the lorry this week. Deals can be found, but always beware of what you buy. I myself once bought a jacket there which had upside-down pockets. Not very useful for holding wallets and other valuables. Both of these markets are open from about 8:30am to 4pm, with Greenpoint Stadium being at its busiest on a Sunday morning.</p>
<p>If it is excitement that you are looking for, then catch a taxi. This is generally regarded as the best way to lose your life, or your underpants, in as short a period of time as possible. You must remember that I am not talking about a regular taxi <a href="#footnote-body.3" name="footnote-link.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a> here, but a wonderful local variant known as the minibus taxi. The qualifications to become a taxi driver are simple. Ignore traffic rules, other traffic, road markings, and pedestrians (other than those who are trying to catch a taxi). Taxis can be caught at any recognised taxi stop <a href="#footnote-body.4" name="footnote-link.4" class="footnote-link">[4]</a>.</p>
<p>Another activity in Cape Town is the Wine Route. This is basically an extended pub crawl, with guides and pamphlets. Although generally a day trip, people have been known to disappear for weeks at a time appreciating the fine grape beverages of the Western Cape.</p>
<h2>Finances</h2>
<p>The money in Cape Town, in fact for the entire country, is this creature called the Rand (not to be confused with the Kruger Rand, which is worth a little bit more). The Rand is currently worth about the same as a snotty tissue, so hitchhikers can look forward to good exchange rates.</p>
<h2>Sports</h2>
<p>The main sports in Cape Town are Rugby, Cricket, and Football <a href="#footnote-body.5" name="footnote-link.5" class="footnote-link">[5]</a>. The respective teams all have nicknames:</p>
<pre>
          Football - Bafana Bafana
          Rugby    - Amaboko-boko
          Cricket  - Those cricket guys
</pre>
<p>The Rugby side won the world cup in 1995; the finals were held in this country. The Football side won the Africa Cup of Nations; the finals were held in this country. The Cricket team did <em>not</em> win the world cup; the finals were <em>not</em> held in this country. (Do we see a trend here?) Guess why Cape Town wanted to host the 2004 Olympics?</p>
<p>A final word for those of you who surf: Cape Town has arguably the densest population of Great White sharks <a href="#footnote-body.6" name="footnote-link.6" class="footnote-link">[6]</a> in the world.</p>
<p>Surf's up!</p>
</div>
