---
layout: "article"
title: "Astrology, Proving And Disproving"
subtitle: "Debunking An Argument In Favour Of Astrology"
author: "Jim Rogers"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R76"
permalink: "articles/8R76"
pgg_date: "1996/03/09"
article_date: "1996/03/09"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1996-03-09 01:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "98% is way off. Actually, it&apos;s somewhere between 70-95%."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "From a Scientific American several years ago, pertaining to a Prisoner&apos;s Dilemma-type lottery contest, by either Gardner (Mathematical Games) or D. Hofstadter (Metamagical Themas). The &quot;payout&quot; would have had to be divided &quot;so close to zero that even God couldn&apos;t tell the difference.&quot;"

---
<div>
<p>Some people who believe in astrology have the following argument to prove there is a valid reason to trust the outcomes:</p>
<p>Anyone who "believes" that the tides are affected by the moon should therefore automatically believe that our bodies are affected by the moon, since we are 98% water <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>. Then it is a natural assumption that the other planets and stars would affect our lives in other ways. To me, the whole thing (astrology) makes so much sense that I find it hard to understand how anybody couldn't believe in it! For goodness sakes, it's right there in front of our faces!! Sheesh!</p>
<p>To this it should be said that the water in our bodies is irrelevant; the ocean tides caused by the moon would happen if the oceans were filled up with gasoline. What's important is the effect of the moon's gravity on the earth's mass. Your body doesn't subtend a large enough difference in radius from the moon's center at this distance to matter at all. When you're looking at the other planets, the tidal effects on your body would be so close to zero "even God couldn't tell the difference" (Martin Gardner, I believe <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>).</p>
<p>No one has to "believe" in lunar tides any more than you have to "believe" in sunrise. It is immediately observable and measurable.</p>
<p>Lots of things are right there in front of our faces, including noses, which would be far more effective instruments to make decisions with than planetary positions (useful for, say, discerning sh** from shinola).</p>
</div>
