---
layout: "article"
title: "More Great Places And Buildings To Not Jump Off"
subtitle: "Statue Of Liberty And Mir Space Station"
author: "Chuck Noonan a.k.a. greyfax"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R77"
permalink: "articles/8R77"
pgg_date: "1997/08/08"
article_date: "1997/08/08"
alternative_title_1: "Statue Of Liberty, A Structure To Not Jump Off"
alternative_title_2: "Liberty, Statue Of, A Structure To Not Jump Off"
alternative_title_3: "Mir Space Station, A Place To Not Jump Off"
alternative_title_4: "Space Stations: Mir, A Place To Not Jump Off"
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1997-08-08 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2R67
  - 8R68
  - 2R8
  - 1R1
  - 6S5
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<h2>Statue Of Liberty</h2>
<p>An excellent structure to not jump off is the Statue of Liberty, New York City, New York, USA, Earth. The view must be outstanding, what with the sun shining on the bay.</p>
<p>You might think that you could jump and perform a perfect dive. The only drawback to that idea is that the Statue of Liberty is standing on a small island, so that while you could certainly jump, the chances are that you would hit land and not water (unless you had legs which can propel you hundreds of feet forward before you hit the Earth).</p>
<h2>Mir Space Station</h2>
<p>Another great place to not jump off is the Mir Space Station. Seeing the whole Earth in your view is certainly a plus.</p>
<p>You could argue that you would never have that split second of intensely painful pain you get when you hit the ground, as you would <em>never</em> hit the ground, being in orbit.</p>
<p>However, once you jump, the chances of actually being found and rescued if you do not notify the proper authorities far beforehand are almost infinitely small, a nd the subsequent asphyxiation you get when the oxygen in the space suit runs out is surely as painful as the famed splat, if not more.</p>
<p>Also, the chances that you ever get a chance to jump from the Mir Space Station are slim, seeing that only the best and most qualified ever get to be astronauts, and only a few of them get to leave our atmosphere. So unless you happen to have an Electronic Thumb and can signal a passing spaceship (and then convince the owner of said spaceship to let you off at Mir, which can be hard), don't bet on this lovely jumping spot.</p>
</div>
