---
layout: "article"
title: "Nostalgia"
subtitle: "I Remember When A Spoon Was A Real Spoon"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R91"
permalink: "articles/8R91"
pgg_date: "1997/07/10"
article_date: "1997/07/10"
alternative_title_1: "Past, Yearning For The"
alternative_title_2: "Reminiscence, The Art Of"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1997-07-10 00:00"
see_also:
  - 6R6
  - 7R3
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "Or a bad one. That&apos;s not to say that all &quot;progress&quot; is good."

---
<div>
<p>Nostalgia is the irrational longing for events or times past, and is often the main reason why some people have no concept of progress <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>. Indeed, nostalgia can be said to be a symptom of progress. It is based on the fact that things are never as good as they were -- or, more truthfully, that things are never as good as you remember them to be.</p>
<p>The problem is that concepts such as "better" and "worse" also tend to be subjective. They are based on so many independent variables that they lose all meaning in most conversation, and now mean little more than they would with the addition of: "in my opinion". In fact, if you ask someone to think about any two concepts enough, they are likely to change their mind, perhaps several times.</p>
<p>Many people now long for the days past when "life was easier". Well, pausing briefly to wonder about the true horror of the two world wars, you can't help but question the basis on which someone might place such a statement. And further, during the days of the war, people must have looked back and wished for earlier days, and further, and further. You have to ask if anyone enjoys anything while it's there, or if you never know what you've got until it's gone.</p>
<p>The only thing that is likely to quash mass-nostalgia is an ability to travel in time. In that event, one could travel back to the time they yearn for, and relive the times they miss (or missed). Unfortunately, this may lead to a further longing for other times gone by, and you start the whole cycle off again.</p>
<p>Is that all? They don't write articles like they used to...</p>
</div>
