---
layout: "article"
title: "Drawing Conclusions"
subtitle: "What Assumptions Can You Make?"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "8S10"
permalink: "articles/8S10"
pgg_date: "1996/05/25"
article_date: "1996/05/25"
alternative_title_1: "Conclusions, Drawing"
alternative_title_2: "Assumptions, Making"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1996-05-25 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2S26
  - 8R24
  - 8R32
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "It may occasionally be necessary to justify the use of these even if they haven&apos;t been used."

---
<div>
<p>From the results of any experiment or any occurrence, there are usually a number of conclusions that can be drawn. The circumstances of the happenings will allow you to make assumptions, and perhaps definite statements, about which conclusions are probable or even possible.</p>
<p>The assumptions that can be made will often be limited by the knowledge of the person making them. For example, if a live cat and a plate of chicken were left in an otherwise empty sealed room, and when this room was opened again a short while later, the plate of chicken remained untouched and the cat had vanished, the following could be surmised:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">The cat has somehow escaped; this would contradict your knowledge about the room, that it was sealed, and that therefore nothing could escape. This could lead you to believe that your initial assumption about the room was untrue, or that someone has released the cat, or the cat itself, departed before the door was sealed.</li>
<li value="2">The cat is there, but it isn't visible; this would contradict your knowledge about the cat, that it has no ability to camouflage itself and nowhere to hide. From this you might assume that cat has escaped (if you couldn't hear it meowing.)</li>
<li value="3">The plate of chicken has somehow consumed the cat; this contradicts your knowledge about the plate of chicken, that the plate has always been inanimate, and the chicken was rendered inanimate when it was removed from its carcass and chopped into pieces. From this, you might assume that you are going crazy.</li>
</ol>
<p>Of course, to explain the first possibility, if you had the imagination or the technology, you might assume that some form of teleportation device had allowed the cat to pass through the boundaries of the room and onto freedom. Scientifically, without proof of the existence of this form of device, you cannot form this as an explanation. The possibility that somebody has released the cat, while being perfectly plausible, will also compromise your assumptions about the security of the room. Also, the idea that the cat left the room before it was sealed will be discounted here.</p>
<p>To explain the second, you could decide that the cat is hiding under the chicken, or the plate. This could be the case if the plate is large enough, or the quantity of chicken is sufficient. Unfortunately, for the purposes of this experiment, they are not.</p>
<p>The third conclusion is so patently ridiculous that in an irrational universe, it could well be the case. Unfortunately, if this were the case, it would challenge every other piece of knowledge and every other assumption you have. For this reason, most people will discount it, and for the purposes of this experiment, so will we.</p>
<p>You might also, at some point, assume that you are looking in the wrong room. For the purposes of this experiment, the room is clearly labeled, and its exact location is beyond doubt. You may rest assured that no mistake of this form can have been made.</p>
<p>It is, of course, possible that someone had actually forgotten to put the cat in the room in the first place. This is most likely to be the case, because every other assumption that has been made seems so unlikely, that they cannot, within the bounds of technology, reason and knowledge, be the case. In the end, however, the only remaining question may be: where is the cat?</p>
<p>From the facts, it is usually possible to find the most likely conclusions, and report on these in whichever way you see fit, though if they lack a certain impact, it can be necessary to use one of the less plausible explanations to justify whatever time and effort and money you have spent <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>If you are not inclined to spend any time, effort, or money on the experiment, however, a creative and imaginative touch is required to create a conclusion that is both plausible and entertaining, while keeping a touch of originality, and perhaps a pinch of insanity. You are not advised to take this approach if you are required to demonstrate the reasons for your conclusion, unless you have also created a water-tight explanation.</p>
<p>Epilogue: please be assured that the cat came to no harm. As for the plate of chicken, that was the last big job it ever did. Its life went on the slide from there-onwards, it went on the bottle (gravy, I think), its whole family deserted it, and they reposessed the saucer. Even its agent said, "What good is a showbiz plate of chicken?" It was pretty broken up. Last I heard was when it hitched a lift northwards, and became part of a cabaret act, with an old half-pint carton of milk and a tube of toothpaste. Apparently it's not bitter, but I wouldn't want to put that to the test.</p>
</div>
