---
layout: "article"
title: "Tounge Of Frog"
subtitle: "Bad Product Name Translations"
author: "Carlos May"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "8S6"
permalink: "articles/8S6"
pgg_date: "1995/01/22"
article_date: "1995/01/22"
alternative_title_1: "Janglish"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sun, 1995-01-22 01:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>[Encycopedia Galactica] Janglish: horribly poor product literature translations from Japanese to English, though sometimes the term is used for such translations from any of the Earth Far East countries.</p>
<p>Indeed, the Japanese are not our only Asian friends to make English, uh, much more interesting.</p>
<p>IT'S THAT TIME, BAD TRANSLATION FANS!!</p>
<p>...It's time to disclose the legendary Taiwanese English text of...</p>
<p>TOUNGE OF FROG.</p>
<p>Below you'll find the actual text on the package of the novelty toy TOUNGE OF FROG, purchaced near the Florida Turnpike in 1984 for $1.69 each, American. Reading the text of TOUNGE OF FROG aloud is one of the sacred rituals of the True Chuch of the Great Green Frog. All typos verbatim.</p>
<p>---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Frog. If it is thrown with full of your strenght, it will spit out the tounge, which is like the genuine one from the frog.</p>
<p>INSTRUCTIONS FOR TOUNGE OF FROG</p>
<pre>
          o A product has the stickness and is just like a soft rubber band
            with high contractility.  It can be played to stick the remote
            objects.
</pre>
<pre>
          o Inspite of it is sticky, it is never like the chewing guns which
            is glued tightly and cannot be separated.
</pre>
<pre>
          o If the stickness is not good enough, it can be washed by soap.
            After it is dried, it cab be used continously many times.
</pre>
<pre>
          o The packing paper has printed the bug picture, which can be cut
            as per the black frame and placed on the table; then you can
            stick the picture with your tounge of frog.
</pre>
<p>The key point for throwing far away is the same as the throwing of fish rod, i.e. to throw out slowly with full of your strength. Separate it with two hands, then release one hand, throw it with full of your strength. No matter what you make a round ball, it will recover the original shape.</p>
<pre>
CAUTIONS: o Never throw out the other person's head.
          o Keep away from fire.
          o Inspite of it is non-toxic, it cannot be eaten.
          o Never pull out tounge of frog hard, as it might be separated.
          o Its content has the oil, so if it touches on cloth, precious
            object or wall, the stains will remain if you don't care about
            it.
          o Never put on surface of any object, shall keep in polybag.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
</pre>
<p>Here enduth the reading of the word of the TOUNGE OF FROG. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

