---
layout: "article"
title: "Holes"
subtitle: "Excellent Storage Area, Or A Waste Of Space?"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "8S7"
permalink: "articles/8S7"
pgg_date: "1996/02/25"
article_date: "1996/02/25"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sun, 1996-02-25 01:00"
see_also:
  - 2U32
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Holes come in many different shapes, sizes, and forms and they have been observed by many people as the most astoundingly useful items in the whole universe, allowing, as they do, anybody or anything to store away items in safety or secrecy, or frequently, both.</p>
<p>Many holes, however, fall into another category: hostile holes. Hostile holes are holes which, when formed, do not aid anybody in any way, but in fact cause a lot more trouble themselves. Examples of these are pot holes and black holes.</p>
<p>It has been speculated by some that any form of hole whatsoever is in fact a complete waste of space, and a fundamental design flaw -- in whatever system they belong. This is proven in the fact that wherever there's a hole, there will also be items strewn all across adjacent open areas.</p>
<p>It has also been speculated that, if you put together the entire area of wasted space from all empty holes in the universe, including every single doughnut hole, you will have enough room to place another entire civilisation, of a comparatively equal size to our own, which has led some to believe that this is where the ultimate destiny of the universe lies.</p>
<p>Fascinatingly enough, it has been theorised that if you exclude the doughnut holes, the overall size is reduced by a factor of two, while the mysterious phenomena of black holes only make up a tiny proportion.</p>
<p>With these ideas in hand, it has yet to be proved that it is easier to lose something in a doughnut than it is to lose it in a black hole.</p>
</div>
