---
layout: "article"
title: "Taco Moose"
subtitle: "The Most Popular Fast-Food In The Universe"
author: "Daniel J. Geduld"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "8U17"
permalink: "articles/8U17"
pgg_date: "1996/12/18"
article_date: "1996/12/18"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1996-12-18 01:00"
see_also:
  - 6R47
  - 8U13
  - 2S18
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Taco Moose Restaurants were founded millenia ago by Colonel Harlan MacDonald on a small planet in the Southern spiral arm of the galaxy. It has grown in popularity over the years as the chain has spread its stores throughout the universe.</p>
<p>The fast-food establishment's specialty, the Taco Moose Soft-Shell Moose Taco, is made with the Colonel's Seven Secret Moose and Spices, real shredded Moose Meat, synthetic vegetables, and the secret special Moose sauce, all wrapped in a soft Moosey shell. All of this "Moosey Goodness", as the Colonel was fond of saying, has propelled Taco Moose into the number one slot of intergalactic fast-food franchises.</p>
<p>The moose themselves are hand-reared on the planet Bulewenkel in the Crab Nebula and only the choicest cuts make it to the restaurants, which hardly matters as they are then dipped in 30-weight grease, fried for four hours, reprocessed, reconstituted, regurgitated and reflavoured, and then sold for a measly $0.98 to the consumer population. The latest Galactic Department of Health survey of the restaurant did not rate it highly.</p>
<p>Along with the Taco Moose Soft-shell Moose Taco, the restaurant offers its special Back-Bacon Moose Fritters (the less said about these, the better) and Moose Cola which tastes as if someone has run a pair of old high-school gym clothes through a mulcher. In a word, avoid the Taco Moose establishments. We know they're popular; we know that there's a free toy inside every Moose Meal; we know that they have the $0.98 value menu; but we also know about botulism.</p>
<p>Get the picture?</p>
</div>
