---
layout: "article"
title: "Invisibility, Practising At Home"
subtitle: "The Only How-To You&apos;ll Ever Need"
author: "Christopher L. Moore"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "8U23"
permalink: "articles/8U23"
pgg_date: "1997/09/20"
article_date: "1997/09/20"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1997-09-20 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2U50
  - 2R56
  - 2U61
  - 2U83
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "Hence the extinguisher."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "Watch for my forthcoming book, Your Body and You: Commanding Your Particles."
  - 3:
    number: 3
    text: "Really, really, really, really, really, really fast."

---
<div>
<p>Some people think that being invisible is a technical impossibility. Pish posh! Some people also think that they really may have "already won $1,000,000," so don't go listening to "Some people," as they are usually a shifty lot.</p>
<p>Being invisible is wholly possible and relatively easy to do. Before we start, you'll need the following supplies:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">A can of spray starch,</li>
<li value="2">A match, and</li>
<li value="3">A fire extinguisher.</li>
</ol>
<p>Although these things do not help you in any way to be invisible, they, when used in the proper sequence, can make a really big flame that may catch your house on fire <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>Now, on with the steps to invisibility. First, be very still. When I say still, I do not mean standing in one place and whistling or something similarly silly, I mean you must still the movement of every particle of your body <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> through mental exercises. When this is completed, the sum of collective kinetic energy of every quark in your body should be roughly equal to the kinetic energy of a queue for Space Mountain at Disneyland in July during the operator's lunch break.</p>
<p>After this is done, the rest is simple. As an anonymous field researcher once said, "Anything is simple, if you have plenty of spare time."</p>
<p>The next step is to begin to accelerate each particle until its velocity is somewhere above light speed. Therefore, every bit of your being will be moving too fast <a href="#footnote-body.3" name="footnote-link.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a> for anyone to actually see it, and thus be rendering you utterly invisible.</p>
<p>While I still haven't perfected the art, or even become relatively invisible yet, I am fairly certain that, in theory, it should work. That, or your particles will get fed up with you telling them what to do and will abandon you, leaving you, as I like to say, "An Entity Equal To Zero", which, on the whole, is not a bad state to be in. Unless you are trying to enter a building with automatic doors.</p>
</div>
