---
layout: "article"
title: "Merits Of Beating Your Head Against The Wall, The"
subtitle: "A Quick, Easy Way To A High IQ"
author: "Bysshe Murphy"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "8U4"
permalink: "articles/8U4"
pgg_date: "1995/07/24"
article_date: "1995/07/24"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1995-07-24 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2R77
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "Please do not really believe this. If you DO believe it, then by all means, follow my advice to the letter."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "Not to mention masonic."
  - 3:
    number: 3
    text: "Particularly if you enjoy a good laugh. And can take one."
  - 4:
    number: 4
    text: "Translation: Beating your head against the wall. This is just one of the many boons of this intelligence-uh, altering program."
  - 5:
    number: 5
    text: "Brain cell-wise, anyhow. The IQ part is still being researched."

---
<div>
<p>It's a well-known scientific fact that for every brain cell you kill, two will grow back in its place <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>. However, very few people realize the significance of this. It is a useful tool for Hitchhikers, for several reasons. The first, most obvious reason, is increased mental power. Just think the kind of scientific <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> breakthroughs you'll make with the boost in mental facility. Second, the fact in itself is a wonderful topic for cocktail party conversation <a href="#footnote-body.3" name="footnote-link.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>. Lastly, free concert tickets. It's true. All touring bands have a minimum number of headbangers for the first few rows. Everybody benefits - the headbangers get into concerts free, and the band has the insurance that nobody close to the stage is even remotely intelligent enough to climb onto it.</p>
<p>There are several easy ways to put this effect into practice, but the easiest and most common is suggested by the title: impact between one's cranial spaces and a brick partition <a href="#footnote-body.4" name="footnote-link.4" class="footnote-link">[4]</a>. This achieves several things. The obvious massacre of brain cells is but one. If you do this often enough, as many of this method's die-hard (no pun intended) practitioners are known to do, then you achieve that wonderful flat-forehead effect that the Mayans so loved. Not to mention that a high forehead is a typical sign of high intelligence. It's true! The astrophysicists will just FLOCK to you.</p>
<p>But let's not forget the other, more intrinsic benefits to this practice! After all, remember those two new brain cells - after long enough, those really add up! Just imagine yourself sitting around, pondering the majesty of creation. No, this is <strong>after</strong> the process is complete, not in the dope breaks in between sessions of head-beating. Particle physics could be within YOUR grasp.</p>
<p>But what's this? You say beating your head against walls is too much physical exertion? Not a problem! Your average alcoholic beverage kills off plenty of brain cells by itself! So, spite your high school health teacher. Drink your way to a high IQ. Pummel your way to one. Or, if you're <strong>really</strong> desperate, sit in a lecture hall for an hour, particularly for a particle physics lecture. A little while of that will have much the same effect <a href="#footnote-body.5" name="footnote-link.5" class="footnote-link">[5]</a>.</p>
<p>So what are you waiting for? Go to it!</p>
</div>
