---
layout: "article"
title: "Headbanging"
subtitle: "Dancing To Heavy Metal Music"
author: "Kaare Rud Flarup"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "9R1"
permalink: "articles/9R1"
pgg_date: "1996/08/08"
article_date: "1996/08/08"
alternative_title_1: "Dancing Alternative"
alternative_title_2: "Alternative Dancing"
alternative_title_3: "Banging Your Head, The Heavy Metal Way"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1996-08-08 00:00"
see_also:
  - 8U4
  - 2R7
  - 2U25
  - 2R92
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "Actually you must squeeze hard."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "Do not do this if you have not seen anyone else doing it, as some very big guys might appear and give you a solid kick in the head, or at least throw you out."
  - 3:
    number: 3
    text: "There will probably always be some other people very near you."

---
<div>
<p>Headbanging is a special form of dancing, performed mostly by people listening to the music form called "Heavy Metal". They are themselves called "Headbangers".</p>
<p>It is particularly popular with people who are not very good at more advanced dancing, as the dance, which many would not call a dance but merely stomping very hard at something, while nodding fiercely for no good reason at all, is not all that hard to learn.</p>
<p>To find a Heavy Metal concert, all you have to do is look for many people with long hair, wearing mostly black cloth. Why these long-haired individuals all simultaneously choose to wear black is, by some, seen as a sign of sorrow, as they might know they are going to be partly or completely deaf after the concert.</p>
<p>If you wish to join in, then walk <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> into the middle of the crowd. Be careful out not to get hair in your eyes, mouth, nose or any other places. It could also be good idea to wear a wig with long hair, but you could be bald instead, as this seems acceptable. Try to get as close as possible to the stage, and maybe even right in front of one of the big loudspeakers. If you are, at this point, not wearing ear plugs, hope you have not come to one of the louder bands' shows!</p>
<p>When the music starts, be prepared for total chaos, and large quantities of hair everywhere. When the people around you start to jump up and down, and throw their heads in all directions simultaneously, begin to do the same yourself. Be aware, particularly if you are close to the stage, that there may be people falling down from above. This is also a part of Headbanging, especially at smaller concerts, and you can try it yourself: squeeze up to the stage; crawl up on it <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>; jump a little around up there; and then leap as far out into the crowd as you can. Do not worry, because someone will <em>probably</em> catch you.</p>
<p>After your first time Headbanging, you might want to leave early, because of bruises; broken parts of the body; the initial stages of hearing damage; or distaste of the music. This may or may not be possible, but one way is to jump up upon some nearby people <a href="#footnote-body.3" name="footnote-link.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>, and they will send you on to some others, who will do the same until you fall down somewhere at the back, or the side, of the crowd. Normally, if you are close to the stage, there are also some of those big guys ready to help you out.</p>
<p>A notice to you if you are male, and looking for members of the opposite sex: maybe because of the brutality of Heavy Metal, or some other unexplained reason, the participants of a headbanging session are almost exclusively male.</p>
<p>So get out there and shake your brain!</p>
</div>
