---
layout: "article"
title: "National Gallery, London, The"
subtitle: "The Nation&apos;s Pictures Permanently On Display"
author: "Alex McLintock"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "9R11"
permalink: "articles/9R11"
pgg_date: "1996/11/28"
article_date: "1996/11/28"
alternative_title_1: "Gallery, National, London"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1996-11-28 01:00"
see_also:
  - 2R71
  - 2R149
  - 2S19
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "The &quot;Post&quot; in Trafalgar Square is my sister&apos;s name for it. Those in the know, call it &quot;Nelson&apos;s Column&quot;."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "This is a slight exaggeration."

---
<div>
<p>A lot of Londoners consider London to be the centre of the cultural world. This is hardly surprising since we have so many institutions to prove it. One such institution is the National Gallery. This building holds over one thousand paintings from the world's greatest artists, painted over the last seven centuries.</p>
<p>To find the National Gallery, first aim for Trafalgar Square. This shouldn't be hard, as any visitor to London should have quickly determined its location as the best place to get a Night Bus. If you haven't been there before, it is the one with the fountains and the post in the middle <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>. Depending on the time of year, it may also have a large Christmas tree in it. The National Gallery is the large building on the North side, with "National Gallery" written on it in letters big enough to be seen from the moon <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>.</p>
<p>The Gallery itself is split up into some seventy odd rooms, each with a particular topic or period. These rooms are collected into four wings:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">West Wing. Paintings from 1510 to 1600.</li>
<li value="2">North Wing. Paintings from 1600 to 1700.</li>
<li value="3">East Wing. Paintings from 1700 to 1920.</li>
<li value="4">Sainsbury Wing. Paintings from 1260 to 1510.</li>
</ol>
<p>No, "Sainsbury" isn't some kind of cockney rhyming slang for "south". The Sainsbury Wing is a new building on the far west side of the west wing.</p>
<p>Expect to need two or three trips to even cover the whole gallery, and make sure that you arrange a place and time to meet with friends, as you are guaranteed to be split up and lose each other.</p>
<p>This landmark of London is highly recommended, not least because it is both free and open on Sunday.</p>
</div>
