---
layout: "article"
title: "Examinations, Fifty Ways To Fail"
subtitle: "Going To Fail? Then Fail In Style!"
author: "James Crook"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "9R12"
permalink: "articles/9R12"
pgg_date: "1997/01/18"
article_date: "1997/01/18"
alternative_title_1: "50 Ways To Fail An Exam"
alternative_title_2: "Failing Exams, Fifty Ways"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1997-01-18 01:00"
see_also:

footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "Not always the case."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "Unless you are American, in which case, write about why they are egg-shaped."

---
<div>
<p>At some point in most people's lives, there comes a time when you feel that an exam you are about to sit is going to be an absolute disaster. If you really have absolutely no hope in passing the exam then this article is for you. Listed below are ways to fail an exam with hilarious <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> consequences.</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Running up to the examiner and eating the paper in front of him/her.</li>
<li value="2">Running up to the examiner and forcing him/her to eat the paper in front of you.</li>
<li value="3">In a biology paper at the question "List the chemical processes involved in digestion", just regurgitate your breakfast over the space provided.</li>
<li value="4">Answer a physics paper in Latin and a Latin paper with equations and mass/force ratios.</li>
<li value="5">Start whispering loudly to the person sitting next to you. You will both be thrown out. This can be good if it is someone you do not like but bad if it is your best friend.</li>
<li value="6">Punch the examiner in the face (instantaneous results).</li>
<li value="7">Offer sacrifices to the examiner to appease the god of crap grades.</li>
<li value="8">Turn up five minutes late, run in and out with your exam paper humming the "Liberty Bell March".</li>
<li value="9">Sound the fire alarm just before you enter the room, wait until everyone has left the section of building you are in and enter the exam hall. Once in the hall sabotage the exam by scribbling swear words in as many exam papers as possible until you get caught.</li>
<li value="10">Order a score of pizzas for the examiner with a compliment card in your name. Be prepared to pay for them, or leave before they arrive.</li>
<li value="11">Kick the chair away from the person in front of you. If the desks are close enough together then a chain reaction down the line is possible.</li>
<li value="12">Book a stripper for the examiner.</li>
<li value="13">Book a goat-o-gram for the examiner.</li>
<li value="14">Book a taxi for the examiner.</li>
<li value="15">Set fire to your exam paper and subsequently the desk, hall, building...</li>
<li value="16">Walk in drunk (not to much fun due to the hangover).</li>
<li value="17">Write a very interesting essay on why footballs are round <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>.</li>
<li value="18">Take up all the spaces on the paper with a formal complaint about a pet hate (school/work/Richard Branson etc.)</li>
<li value="19">Walk up to the examiner and ask for a piece of paper. Repeat this at five minute intervals until the examiner asks why you need so much paper, at this point show the examiner the paper chain you have made out of your exam entry.</li>
<li value="20">Fake a heart attack in the exam.</li>
<li value="21">Get thrown out by bringing in your holiday snaps and showing them to the rest of the people in the exam one by one.</li>
<li value="22">Fake an orgasm with the desk (highly amusing but highly embarrassing later).</li>
<li value="23">Turn up ten minutes before the exam has ended, sit down, write a few lines and leave the exam five minutes early.</li>
<li value="24">Pray to a model of Luke Skywalker at regular intervals.</li>
<li value="25">Put a brick through the window of the exam hall with a note tied to it explaining why windows break when you put bricks through them. Be sure to enter the room five minutes later and ask for your brick back.</li>
<li value="26">In a timed computer studies assessment give up and start to play tetris or solitaire instead.</li>
<li value="27">Moan and groan loudly.</li>
<li value="28">Throw paper darts at the examiner with messages written on them such as, "What's the answer to question 3" or "Does your wife know your secret?".</li>
<li value="29">Start to practice yoga on your desk and ignore the examiner when he/she start to shout at you.</li>
<li value="30">Replace a large bottle of paracetamol's contents with mints and take the bottle into the exam. If the examiner quizzes you over the bottle say that the your doctor prescribes them to stop you getting headaches. Halfway through the exam stand up, scream "I can't take it anymore!", overdose on the "paracetamol" and pretend to collapse. The examiner will no doubt panic and the exam will be stopped. Your trick will be discovered at the hospital but at least you will have fresh breath when you get thrown out of intensive care.</li>
<li value="31">Doodle pictures of the examiner under the question "Draw a diagram of a single-celled lower life form".</li>
<li value="32">Twwwaaaannngggg your ruler on your desk repeatedly.</li>
<li value="33">Make rude words on your calculator (that's all I ever did in my maths lessons) and show them to the examiner.</li>
<li value="34">Complete the exam by writing your sentences backwards (this takes a bit of practice).</li>
<li value="35">Organise a devil worshipping session with a group of people who have just as much chance of passing the exam as you do.</li>
<li value="36">If the exam is a modern language exam then answer the exam in English.</li>
<li value="37">Take off your shoes and socks. If that does not clear the room then start to examine your verucas/athlete's foot/corns. Show them to the examiner if need be.</li>
<li value="38">At various points in the exam stand up and change desks. Repeat until the examiner throws you out.</li>
<li value="39">Play a game of "bollocks" with yourself. For those not familiar with the rules of "bollocks" it is a game usually played with two people where each person takes it in turns to say "bollocks" at a louder volume than the other person. The winner is the one who lasts the longest without being caught.</li>
<li value="40">French kiss the examiner (care!)</li>
<li value="41">Start pretending to swat flies with your exam paper until your eventually hit the examiner.</li>
<li value="42">Take a helium filled balloon into the exam. Inhale the contents and sing "I've got a lovely bunch of coconuts" at the examiner.</li>
<li value="43">Take a pencil case shaped like a mobile phone into the exam and "talk" to your parents at regular intervals.</li>
<li value="44">Release a small mouse into the exam and watch the mass hysteria happen when it runs through the female section of the hall.</li>
<li value="45">Drink a litre of coke before entering the exam and attempt to burp "The Sound of Music".</li>
<li value="46">Use your tie as a sling-shot and fire blunt instruments (calculator, pens, rulers etc.) at the examiner.</li>
<li value="47">Ask to go to the toilet. Return and complain that there is no toilet paper. Pause, pick up your exam paper and stroll out.</li>
<li value="48">Make a mural on the floor by flicking ink at it during the exam. "Miss" occasionally and hit the person sitting in front of you.</li>
<li value="49">Walk in wearing a fairy costume and grant the examiner any wish he/she wants.</li>
<li value="50">Write another list of "50 Ways To Fail An Exam"</li>
</ol>
</div>
