---
layout: "article"
title: "Cheating At Pool"
subtitle: "Gaining An Unfair Advantage"
author: "Tony Blews"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "9R14"
permalink: "articles/9R14"
pgg_date: "1997/01/28"
article_date: "1997/01/28"
alternative_title_1: "Pool, Cheating At"
alternative_title_2: "How To Cheat At Pool"
alternative_title_3: "Snooker, Cheating At"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1997-01-28 01:00"
see_also:
  - 6S8
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "The author does not advocate or recommend the blinding of your opponent, nor does he accept responsibility if anyone chooses to perform this act."

---
<div>
<p>It has been well known for some time that there are only two ways to consistently win at the game of pool. You must either practice the game during every working moment of your life, or cheat. This article concerns itself with the methods of the latter, and with not being discovered.</p>
<h2>Method 1: The Rules</h2>
<p>It may seem strange to mention rules in a guide to cheating, but one of the easier ways to cheat is to conveniently forget the rules. This can range from putting your opponent off by repeatedly asking about specific rules - though this really classes as a Distraction - to continually making the same foul play and claiming it to be legal under some other variant of the rules.</p>
<p>The following are examples of the above:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">"Oh sorry, I thought I was allowed to move the white. You can under Stafford Pub &amp; Club Rules."</li>
<li value="2">"You mean I can't re-spot the black after your foul? Aren't we playing Northern Pool Association League Rules?"</li>
<li value="3">"No, you can't play down the table unless you've already potted three balls without fouling, according to the Preston League 1993 rules."</li>
<li value="4">"Clockwise movement along the Circle Line is only permitted after a move North along the Bakerloo Line. Sorry, that's Mornington Crescent."</li>
</ol>
<h2>Method 2: Distraction</h2>
<p>By far the easiest method of cheating is to distract your opponent at the critical moment when they are about to make that vital pot. In its simplest form, this technique may involve a well timed sneeze, the timely ringing of the Last Orders bell, or asking for the money that you lent you opponent six months ago, even if you did no such thing. Some other distraction methods will be listed later, as they also fall under the category of 'Technology'.</p>
<p>Experts in this field have discovered that nothing puts a male player off his shot more than a large chested young female leaning over the table.</p>
<h2>Method 3: Interference</h2>
<p>The more daring player can opt to seek an advantage by removing their balls from the table when the opponent is not looking, or replacing the opponents balls after they have been pocketed. This only works during the early stages of a game, when there are plenty of balls on the table.</p>
<p>The pool cue is as important as the balls in this game, so rigging your foe's cue so that the end falls off is considered a wise move.</p>
<h2>Method 4: Technology</h2>
<p>Recent advancements in technology have provided the pool cheat with a number of useful devices. The use of low power laser pointers to briefly project a red spot on the cue ball as a shot is taken is considered acceptable, whereas the blinding of your opponent is not, unless a wager for a substantial amount of money is involved <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>. Calls to mobile phones at the appropriate moment can also prove invaluable.</p>
<p>Balls which have metallic cores will be affected by strong magnets which can be secreted near the table. Electromagnets should be activated only when required.</p>
<p>Portable laser targeting systems are too expensive and currently only function in Science Fiction films, and thus will not be described here.</p>
<h2>Conclusion</h2>
<p>Cheating at pool is easy. Cheating without being detected can be difficult.</p>
<p>Of course, these methods may also be used to cheat at snooker.</p>
</div>
