---
layout: "article"
title: "Volgo Lake Alcohol Consumption Effect"
subtitle: "The Place You May Drink Not Very Carefully"
author: "Vladimir L. Shirokogorov"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "9R30"
permalink: "articles/9R30"
pgg_date: "1997/08/12"
article_date: "1997/08/12"
alternative_title_1: "Alcohol Consumption Effect At Volgo Lake"
alternative_title_2: "Consumption Of Alcohol Effect At Volgo Lake"
alternative_title_3: "Lake, Volgo, Alcohol Consumption Effect Of"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1997-08-12 00:00"
see_also:
  - 2R77
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "The test may cause serious damages to your health. Do not perform it alone, and at least one person should stay sober; first, he/she will be judging and, second, he/she should call for the doctors or/and undertakers."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "Use Yupi, Zuko, Kool-Aid; never use Invite; actually, the more natural the instant drink is, the better."
  - 3:
    number: 3
    text: "Use only filtered or purified water from a safe water well, spring, etc. The best idea is to use bottled low mineral water without gas, like Evian."

---
<div>
<p>Volgo is a lake in Tverskaya oblast' in Russia, some 380 kilometres from Moscow. It is significant for the fact that Volga river flows out from it. Volgo water contains a bit more silver than any other fresh water, but because the silver is dissolved, you can hardly notice it.</p>
<p>Volgo Lake used to be a deserted piece of Russian nature with pine woods and lots of mushrooms, but during last few years more and more people have visited Volgo, leaving more and more organic and inorganic waste. However, it is still one of the most beautiful spots in the world.</p>
<p>There is something special in this lake. It is an unique alcohol consumption effect which may be experienced by everyone who visits Volgo. The test which reveals the effect is very simple <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>Step one: when at home, or at any place other than Volgo, buy some great amount of strong alcohol (at least twice as much as you can consume, in order to avoid visiting liquor store again) and drink a 40-50 millilitre portion every ten to twelve minutes, following up every portion with a good mouthful of instant fruit drink <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> dissolved in fresh <em>not boiled</em> water <a href="#footnote-body.3" name="footnote-link.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a> and some piece of food. Smoke occasional cigarettes, sing songs, and chat with friends. Repeat until you are not able to say "The sixth sick shaikh's sixth sheep's sick". Ask your assistant to measure the volume of consumed alcohol.</p>
<p>Step two: do the same thing at Volgo, this time dissolving the instant fruit drink in <em>unboiled</em> water taken from the lake. You will notice that the amount of alcohol you are able to consume has radically increased.</p>
<p>The origins of this phenomenon should be thoroughly studied.</p>
<p>How to get to Volgo Lake: if you drive from Moscow, take the Riga highway, turn to the right at Rzhev, drive through this town, take the road to Ostashkov, drive till Selizharovo, at 14th kilometre after this town turn to the left to the village of Selischi, drive through the village, turn to the left and drive 14 more kilometres. Then you will see that the road turns to the left, and if you drive straight through the mud and then a further 500 metres, you will get right to the place.</p>
</div>
