---
layout: "article"
title: "Theatre"
subtitle: "Playgoing For The Culturally Declined"
author: "John Murphy"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "9R33"
permalink: "articles/9R33"
pgg_date: "1997/09/11"
article_date: "1997/09/11"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1997-09-11 00:00"
see_also:
  - 9R8
  - 9R5
  - 9R3
footnotes: 
  - 1:
    number: 1
    text: "These are the same festivals where women would get roaring drunk and tear apart woodland creatures with their teeth."
  - 2:
    number: 2
    text: "After whom Thespians, or actors, are named."
  - 3:
    number: 3
    text: "These masks often contained mini megaphones [4] in the mouthpiece so that the actor&apos;s voice could be amplified."
  - 4:
    number: 4
    text: "I suppose that would make them &quot;phones,&quot; wouldn&apos;t it?"
  - 5:
    number: 5
    text: "The involvement of alcohol hadn&apos;t been entirely taken out of theatre yet. For that matter, it still hasn&apos;t."
  - 6:
    number: 6
    text: "Meaning, &quot;Swollen-Foot the King,&quot; Oedipus is about a guy who unwittingly kills his father and marries his mother. The play takes place as he finds all this out. Fun, fun, fun."
  - 7:
    number: 7
    text: "This is actually true. Way back in the Roman Empire, people noticed that wine tastes better when prepared a certain way. This certain way happened to involve boiling it in a lead kettle, and the dissolved lead made the wine sweeter. This is why children eat lead paint, and why large numbers of European nobility and artsy-types got lead poisoning."
  - 8:
    number: 8
    text: "Blank verse is sort of like poetry in the way an actor&apos;s lines are divided into separate lines, and that the syllables in a line alternate on a definite pattern of stress, non-stress, stress, non-stress, etc. Remarkably, when blank verse is read aloud onstage, it sounds more natural than normal speech."
  - 9:
    number: 9
    text: "Essentially, when a character stands talking to himself for a long period of time and nobody else onstage notices. When the character only makes a comment or two, it is called an aside. The important concept here is that none of the other characters hear him."
  - 10:
    number: 10
    text: "Do not, however, fall into the trap as accepting everything they say as real history. It&apos;s not."

---
<div>
<p>Few things are both as enjoyable and culturally enriching as a night at the theatre. Or so they tell me. After all, the average person considers a "night at the theatre" to be taking in the newest Jean-Claude van Damme flick and maybe stopping at McDonald's on the way.</p>
<p>Surprisingly, however, the theatre really is a fascinating way to spend one's time, and only minimal ammunition is needed in order to prepare oneself. This article should give you a basic background in theatre, let you in on some of the little tidbits that make life interesting, aid you in planning your "night on the town," and help you make the most of your experience.</p>
<h2>Background</h2>
<h3>History</h3>
<p>First things first. If you're going to learn about theatre, the best place to start is where theatre itself started.</p>
<p>Theatre began, much like damn near everything in Western society, with the Ancient Greeks. It began, not so much as a performance, but as an excuse for getting drunk and being devout. The two concepts are not so irreconcilable, considering that drama began as worshippers of Dionysus, the God of Wine, would get drunk and act out various religious stories <a href="#footnote-body.1" name="footnote-link.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>Somewhere along the line, someone called Thespe <a href="#footnote-body.2" name="footnote-link.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> became involved and, sooner or later, the whole thing became somewhat organized. At this point, however, theatre was in a somewhat primitive state. The actors would stand on stage, wearing large masks showing who they were supposed to be and what emotion they were in <a href="#footnote-body.3" name="footnote-link.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>. The main part of the plot would be supplied, not by the actor's lines, or dialogue, but by a group of people called the Chorus, who would chant large sections of story to the audience.</p>
<p>At this point, too, we begin to see the emergence of the script, a written record of what the actors were supposed to be saying <a href="#footnote-body.5" name="footnote-link.5" class="footnote-link">[5]</a>. Further, with the emergence of the drama competition, we see the first major playwrights, including Sophocles, who wrote the famous play, Oedipus Rex <a href="#footnote-body.6" name="footnote-link.6" class="footnote-link">[6]</a>. Drama is also divided into the classifications of "Tragedy" and "Comedy." Comedy isn't humor in this context, but rather any play where not everybody ends up maimed or dead. A good rule of thumb is that if you want to take a cyanide pill with your popcorn, you're not watching a comedy.</p>
<p>After the fall of the Greeks, precious little occurs with the theatre for a long time. During the Roman Empire, everyone mimicked the Greeks, and a large number of Roman playwrights did little-to-no experimentation with the art, before going on to die. Nobody misses them. During the Middle Ages, we see the emergence of morality plays, of which Everyman was one. Middle Age drama was generally very bad, as there were very few professional actors or playwrights, and the wine was poisoned <a href="#footnote-body.7" name="footnote-link.7" class="footnote-link">[7]</a>. Nobody misses them much either.</p>
<p>Along comes the Renaissance, and people like Christopher Marlowe, Ben Jonson and, most notably, William Shakespeare. Shakespeare alone has influenced modern theatre more than anyone else, using such techniques as blank verse <a href="#footnote-body.8" name="footnote-link.8" class="footnote-link">[8]</a>, soliloquy <a href="#footnote-body.9" name="footnote-link.9" class="footnote-link">[9]</a>, and good writing. These playwrights veer away from religion as a central theme, although they often used religious and mythological themes. Often, as in Shakespeare's <em>Richard III</em> and Marlowe's <em>Tambourlaine the Great</em>, historical fact is used as a basis for plot <a href="#footnote-body.10" name="footnote-link.10" class="footnote-link">[10]</a>.</p>
<p>Around this time, too, opera develops. It only reaches a quasi-modern form with Mozart, a century or so later, but at least it's there.</p>
<p>The last major historical period to talk about takes place around and about the two world wars, and the development of absurdist theatre. We get people like Samuel Beckett, Henrik Ibsen, and Anton Chekhov, all of whom tended to look at the real world and smirk. At this point, it's every man for himself, look out below, nobody here but us weirdoes. In other words, Here There Be Tygers.</p>
<h2>Planning A Theatre Trip</h2>
<p>So, now that you've decided to go see some play, you need to have a basic plan. The following guide should help you prepare for both the evening and the play itself.</p>
<h3>Choosing A Play</h3>
<p>First, you need to choose a play. If you live in the middle of nowhere, then there's usually not much option: you watch whatever's playing. If there's nothing playing nearby, then things get complicated, and you generally have to go to the closest big city to see anything. If this is required, try and get at least one copy of the city's best newspaper, not more than two weeks in advance.</p>
<p>A few decisions need to be made. How professional an effort do you want to watch? A professional, star-studded play or musical is generally top quality, but will generally run you between twenty and a hundred dollars American, depending on your seats. Premieres, or the first performances of a play, can require selling organs and are generally not worth the effort and/or price involved. Performances by the Royal Shakespeare Company and Andrew Lloyd Webber's Really Useful Company are really the only exceptions to this rule and, besides, they don't <em>always</em> cost an arm and a leg.</p>
<p>Thus, an amateur play is often the way to go. At this point, you have to decide how amateur is acceptable. In an academic community, it isn't unusual to have a number of moderate-to-high quality plays going on at any given time. The only big minus is that there are often very few performances, so you have to really plan in advance. Further, the variety, or rather the lack thereof, can be excruciating in a college without a substantial theatre department. On the other hand, tickets for such plays rarely exceed twenty dollars American.</p>
<p>If you're really desperate, you might be able to find a high school play. As a general rule, don't expect brilliant acting, or brilliant scenery. Of course, some high schools have long-running, respectable theatre programs, so you really have to just check into them. Just keep in mind that while some high schools have fantastic budgets, there is no guarantee on the acting. Trust me. Expect to spend between five and ten dollars American, and to be forced into cramped, graffiti-covered seats.</p>
<h3>What Kind Of Play Is This?</h3>
<p>Before you buy tickets, you should also try to find out what kind of play you want to see. If the selection is limited to only a few plays, you don't have the luxury of choice, so we'll assume that you're in New York, London, Paris, or any other community with a wide variety.</p>
<p>There are a number of basic types, each with its pros and cons. Each type also involves a different amount of preparation, and a different evening.</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Tragedy: in modern parlance, anything with a sad ending, generally involving a death of some sort, often suicide. Read: depressing. Also not such a hot idea for a first date. On the other hand, they tend to be rather thought-provoking, and often have involved plots.
<p>No real preparation is required for viewing a tragedy, although it is occasionally a good idea to have a passing familiarity with the plot. It's your call on this one, since you can get along quite well without it. On a date, dinner is acceptable, but not recommended, and never right after the play. McDonald's is out of the question. Expect subdued conversation with tinges of depression, and plan accordingly.</p>
</li>
<li value="2">Comedy: today, anything with a laugh. Tends to be light-hearted, entertaining, etcetera, and very little preparation is necessary. In fact, just make sure that the clothes that you're wearing didn't cost less than your ticket and you're all set.
<p>Dinner isn't necessary, and I personally recommend going to a coffee shop or snack bar directly afterwards to talk and have a little to eat. Conversation doesn't always include the performance, but it's a safe bet that it will.</p>
</li>
<li value="3">Shakespearean Drama: whether tragedy or comedy, some preparation is required. The best advice I can give is to be familiar with the plot before attending, and if possible, to have read it once. Try to not to go to anything you only read in high school English class, and while we're on the subject, if it's being performed by a high school, avoid it like the plague. There's a reason that the term, "High School Shakespeare" is both well-known and infamous.
<p>Stick to reputable Troupes or colleges and you'll be fine. Ticket price is no indication of a good performance, although Royal Shakespeare Company is always a safe bet, and Shakespeare festivals are often fun, but get your seats well in advance.</p>
<p>If you bring a date, bring one with a clue, and it might be wise for him or her to prepare to the same extent you do. Otherwise, one or both of you will be miserable.</p>
<p>In short, Shakespearean theatre can be a lot of work, but it is nearly always a worthwhile experience. See above suggestions for dinner.</p>
</li>
<li value="4">Absurdist Theatre: know the play beforehand, and don't expect to understand it, particularly if the title contains the words, "Waiting," "For," and "Godot." If you bring a date, resist the temptation to talk during the performance. I don't care if the people around you <em>are</em> shouting, "Bravo," "Author," and "Encore," you don't want to know those people.
<p>Go to dinner before the play, but have dessert afterwards. It's like a reward, in a Pavlovian sort of way. Besides, it's a nice distraction from what you just sat through.</p>
</li>
<li value="5">Opera: don't expect English. There were all of three or four well-written English operas, and it's rare to find those in production. Content yourself to being well-versed with the basic plot, perhaps with a little light research beforehand. Dressing up is sometimes a nice idea, but not always necessary. No jeans, though.
<p>Dinner is up to you.</p>
</li>
<li value="6">Musical Theatre: almost always a comedy, although <em>Phantom of the Opera</em>, <em>Les Miserables</em>, and <em>Miss Saigon</em> are notable exceptions. If it's by Rogers and Hammerstein, Gilbert and Sullivan, or Andrew Lloyd Webber, expect a lot of fun, vapid music and snappy dialogue, and an evening not unlike swallowing a balloon - an interesting experience, but not one that leaves you wholly satisfied.
<p>Dinner's a nice touch, and just about anyone who can stand the music will be game for an evening at a musical. When somebody refers to Broadway as a type of performance, they are talking about musical theatre. Under no circumstances are you to admit to a theatre critic that you just came from a musical, especially the type of critic who dresses like a flood victim. These can get nasty and start ranting about how Broadway musicals are killing Broadway.</p>
<p>For the record, I have nothing against musicals but, please, no Andrew Lloyd Webber.</p>
</li>
<li value="7">Kabuki: Japanese opera. A lot of long hair, with little change for centuries. To be honest, I have almost no experience with Kabuki, but am told that it can be exquisite. It's your call.</li>
<li value="8">Experimental Theatre: you're up past your bedtime.</li>
</ol>
<h2>Enjoying The Performance</h2>
<p>The key to having a good time at any play, is knowing what's going on. For most plays, this is not a problem, but for a few, it's not difficult to get lost. Here are a few tips to keeping up, along with a few things to watch for.</p>
<ul>
<li>Read the play beforehand: yes, I've said this before, but I'll say it again. Even having read it once causes certain phrases and certain actions to jog your memory during the performance. Further, many of my other suggestions rely on having done this. If you don't want to know the ending, sometimes you can get away with not reading the entire thing.</li>
<li>Remember the characters' names: often, a major source of confusion during a play comes from not understanding who is being referred to in the dialogue, forgetting characters' names can be very frustrating. If you have difficulty doing this during the play, plan ahead and read the plot, or at least the first act.</li>
<li>Discuss the play during intermission: don't be afraid to ask questions of the people you bring along. If you're expecting trouble, then bring people along who at least won't be more clueless than you. Even equally clueless people can sometimes notice helpful things. Keep in mind, though, that intermission is generally only between ten and fifteen minutes long, so plan accordingly.
<p>Also, don't buy refreshments, particularly not liquid refreshments.</p>
<p>One-act plays do not have intermissions. Be warned.</p>
</li>
<li>Buy a program: optimistically, the list of names and scenes (and, in a musical, songs) might jog your memory. Pessimistically, they often have nice pictures and advertisements.</li>
<li>Know what to expect: talk about the play beforehand with someone who has seen it. Ask in particular about important scenes, funny and striking lines, and turning points in the plot. Remember, familiarity can be a good thing.</li>
<li>Relax! After all, it's not like any lives hang in the balance, and even if they do, it depends on whose they are. Just sit back, watch all those funny-looking people up on stage, and clap when everybody else does. If anybody asks what your favorite part was, just shrug and change the subject.</li>
</ul>
</div>
