---
layout: "article"
title: "Politically Correct, How To Be"
subtitle: "A Short &quot;How-To&quot; In Getting To Be Politically Correct"
author: "Nicholas Gurley"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "9R37"
permalink: "articles/9R37"
pgg_date: "1998/01/02"
article_date: "1998/01/02"
alternative_title_1: "Correct, Politically, How To Be"
alternative_title_2: "How To Be Politically Correct"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1998-01-02 01:00"
see_also:
  - 2S25
  - 1S4
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Today, the world is filled with people who believe that saying rude things can actually cause someone so much psychological pain that they will instantly turn into a trout! Thus, in order to stop everyone from turning into trouts, they devised a special system of codes that let someone know they are being rude, all the while keeping their words impersonal and scientific. What a trick!</p>
<p>And now you, yes <em>you</em>, can do this same amazing feat. Amaze your friends by insulting them, but without causing them psycho-trauma! Here's how:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Pick any insult (eg. "That guy is short and fat! Sick!")</li>
<li value="2">Transform the really insulting words into politically correct terms, then</li>
<li value="3">Say the sentence! (Eg. "That guy is both vertically and horizontally challenged! Sick!")</li>
</ol>
<p>Do you see how that worked? Let's look closer at Step 2:</p>
<p>"Short" became "vertically-challenged." "Fat" became "horizontally challenged."</p>
<p>Note the "-challenged" part: that is the most important thing to get this simple speech-mask to work. Pick the most scientific word you can thing of to describe a condition, then throw in "-challenged". For example, the deaf are "auditorially-challenged".</p>
<p>You now know the secret to speaking to people without turning them into trouts. This type of speech is best used in the United States, where people actually <em>cannot</em> say more than four words without an insult.</p>
<p>With luck, and this article, they will become more caring and compassionate, as you see here!</p>
</div>
