---
layout: "article"
title: "Reality"
subtitle: "What Is It?"
author: "Darren Long"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "9U6"
permalink: "articles/9U6"
pgg_date: "1997/05/18"
article_date: "1997/05/18"
alternative_title_1: "Defining Reality"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sun, 1997-05-18 00:00"
see_also:
  - 6R53
  - 2U70
  - 9S3
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>Reality can be a difficult topic to get your head round. This is one of the fundamental problems that philosophers have tried to solve since philosophers first philosophised.</p>
<p>Of course, doubts arising from an inexact understanding of the true nature of reality do not concern all living creatures. Some seem content to carry on their presumed existence without ever stopping to worry about whether or not they actually exist; this might seem to be a complete waste of time to those who are not properly following this topic, but this point of view can be shown to be logically false.</p>
<p>The concept of reality can, and should, be split up into three critical sub-divisions, which can help us analyse the whole thing more effectively. These are:</p>
<h2>Consensus Realities</h2>
<p>This is the reality that concerns us in everyday survival mode, assuming that you are not currently being: abducted by aliens; having your blood sucked out of your body by a vampire; or flying unassisted over Stanstead Airport in your dressing gown. This is also the reality that is generally accepted by entities that have not come to terms with their own possible non-existence.</p>
<p>Consensus reality is just what it sounds like. If you are accused of insanity, your best bet is to try to demonstrate an understanding of your accusers version of consensus reality and act within their limitations of acceptable behaviour. Discussions of advanced technologies and threats to Galactic security are best not entered into, in most backward civilisations, under these circumstances.</p>
<p>Consensus reality can change so fast you really have a tough time keeping up with it. This phenomenon "Consensus Reality Drift" (CRD), exists in all spatial and temporal dimensions, so you have to keep your wits about you.</p>
<p>Examples of typical consensus reality beliefs are:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">The flat world paradigm.</li>
<li value="2">The spherical world paradigm.</li>
<li value="3">The Newtonian physics paradigm.</li>
<li value="4">The Relativistic physics paradigm.</li>
<li value="5">The Quantum Physics paradigm.</li>
</ol>
<h2>Non-Ordinary Realities</h2>
<p>There are more of these than there are Consensus Realities. This is because of the fact that many sentient entities are obliged to comply with consensus reality models during their existence but employ temporary (quite normally) or permanent (getting tricky) additional paradigms (or reality tunnels) in order to explain certain unusual, paranormal, phenomena.</p>
<p>Examples of these are:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Alien abduction scenarios.</li>
<li value="2">Out Of Body Experiences (OOBEs).</li>
<li value="3">Talking to God.</li>
</ol>
<h2>Alternative Realities</h2>
<p>Who knows how many fully fledged alternative realities exist. Coping with one is probably enough for most people, but to indulge in more would put you at risk in any Committal proceeding. Most adoptees of any completely alternative reality will soon find themselves in difficulty if attempting to participate in any meaningful relationship with proponents of consensus reality.</p>
<p>One interesting point to note is that it is theoretically possible for an alternative reality adoptee to also adopt a temporary non-ordinary reality model in order to coincide with the local consensus reality, thus fooling everyone including themselves.</p>
<p>Examples of Alternative Realities are:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">The Universal Conspiracy, i.e. everything is out to get me.</li>
<li value="2">The stupid model, i.e. nothing is out to get me.</li>
<li value="3">The Far Out model, like, wow man.</li>
<li value="4">The Buddhist model, (very intricate and confusing).</li>
<li value="5">Consensus reality.</li>
</ol>
<h2>Conclusion</h2>
<p>Reality is a complicated subject. A human called Robert Anton Wilson once advised his readers to "not believe completely in their own belief system and to not believe completely in anyone else's belief system." It remains unclear to this day whether anyone actually believed him.</p>
<p>My advice to fellow travellers is to avoid thinking about reality at all and wait and see what it throws at you. That is if you actually exist! Go with the flow adopting local consensus realities and temporary non-ordinary realities as you determine to be good and proper in the circumstances.</p>
<p>Perceptual ambiguities can be caused by any manifestation of a paranormal event if you are not currently attuned to the correct reality model, leaving you vulnerable to its effects.</p>
<p>Tacit acceptance of all probable and improbable reality models, whilst outwardly showing awareness and understanding of the local consensus model combined with any prevailing non-ordinary realities, is one of the best strategies for coping with reality confusion.</p>
<p>NB. Due to the philosophical problem of categorising reality as Real, Semi-real or Unreal, it is the authors suggestion that it be categorized as Unreal, pending further investigation.</p>
</div>
