---
layout: "article"
title: "Dimensions, Number Of"
subtitle: "How Many Dimensions Are There?"
author: "Matt Baier"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "9U8"
permalink: "articles/9U8"
pgg_date: "1996/01/16"
article_date: "1996/01/16"
alternative_title_1: "Number Of Dimensions"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1996-01-16 01:00"
see_also:
  - 2U86
  - 6U13
footnotes: 

---
<div>
<p>A lot has been written on the subject of dimensions, while even more has been thought about and then forgotten. Most people think that the Earth resides in three dimensions: height, width, and depth. This is incorrect. Some more intelligent people think that there are four: the three above, and time. This is also incorrect. A few crackpots think that it's a two-dimensional world, and we can move through to different planes. This is not only incorrect, but clearly insane.</p>
<p>The truth is that there are at least five: we move freely in space, in a straight line through time, and in a more or less random direction in probability. The reason for this is that every minute of every day, everyone makes a choice. These choices take us into random directions on the improbability axis. Because we only know that it's there, the improbability axis is the hardest of the dimensions to deal with. We never really know where we are on it, or what choices will take us where. It's like following an unfamiliar car; you don't know where you're going until you get there.</p>
<p>The problem with not knowing which direction a choice will take you is the same problem slackers run into: they decide not to work, and find themselves in a bad part of the improbability axis, i.e. living in a van down by a river, to borrow a phrase from the late Chris Farley. If they had been able to see where each decision took them, they would be in a whole lot less trouble.</p>
<p>Another problem is that when faced with an opportunity to go to a better place in this dimension, we are more likely to mess it up than do the right thing. We go left when meaning to go right and drive off a cliff, and things like that.</p>
<p>The secret, thus, is to never make decisions. Unfortunately, this is impossible. We are immediately faced with the problem that this (lack of) action is already a decision in itself. After this it gets increasingly complicated, and as most of our lives are complex enough, I won't cloud the problem any further.</p>
</div>
