---
layout: "article"
title: "Dealing With The Lack Of Time"
subtitle: "Time Expands To Fill Available Space"
author: "Vincent Joseph Shuta"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "1U4"
permalink: "articles/1U4"
pgg_date: "1992/11/22"
article_date: "1992/11/22"
alternative_title_1: "Lack Of Time, Dealing With"
alternative_title_2: "Time, Dealing With The Lack Of"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sun, 1992-11-22 01:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>It's a common complaint of most sentient beings in the galaxy that there isn't enough time to accomplish everything. The time allotted for projects, assignments, and those tasks necessary for daily life is always less than the time required to accomplish the projects, assignments, and daily tasks. The general response to such laments is "Get organized." This is not often welcome advice because if one had the time to get organized, then there would be enough time to accomplish everything: adding "Get organized" to the list doesn't help.</p>
<p>This has led to an entire industry based on time-saving devices: Microwave ovens, electric can openers, automatic cat feeders, etc. Although some of these devices have been shown to save time, the overall effect is minimal, and the complaints have not dropped too much. (The overall effect on the lives of the inventors has been quite amazing, since they can now afford to hire people to do everything for them. The overall effect on the hired people has been the opposite, since they now have that much less time, due to the added task of catering to the inventors. This creates a balance so the overall figures are not affected.)</p>
<p>Some psychologists at Golgafrincham University Polar Campus (also known as "Snow U") developed a theory that people schedule any free time they have for fear of boredom. This has never been fully developed however, since the same psychologists were sent off in the now infamous B Ark.</p>
<p>As a side note, the rest of the psychologists stayed home. They of course were key figures in Golgafrincham's population reduction plans. The only ones who weren't working on that project were those who weren't considered that good. And although it was a tad embarrassing for all involved when they came up with a major theory, it was easily taken care of. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

