---
layout: "article"
title: "Random Dot Stereograms"
subtitle: "Random Dot Stereograms And Why Not To See Them"
author: "Tony Blews"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R101"
permalink: "articles/2R101"
pgg_date: "1994/06/22"
article_date: "1994/06/22"
alternative_title_1: "Subliminal Advertising"
alternative_title_2: "Conspiracy, Subliminal Advertising"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1994-06-22 00:00"
see_also: ["2R99"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>As far as I can work out, Random Dot Stereograms can be explained 3 ways.</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Drugs.
<p>Look at it this way: Its a piece of paper with a funny squiggle on it, and it causes people to see things that aren't really there. That smacks of drug use in my book.</p>
</li>
<li value="2">The Emperor's New Clothes.
<p>Someone came up with the idea that if you can see these things then you must be intelligent. Everyone else who says they can see them is either (a) lying so that people will think that they're clever, or (b) on drugs (see point 1).</p>
</li>
<li value="3">The Mind Control/Conspiracy Theory.
<p>Subliminal advertising and brainwashing for the masses. If you stare at these things for long enough, you will be hypnotised and programmed to do vile things. Is it just a coincidence that the people who can see these images also drink brand-name Cola and listen to Top 40 radio? Only the weak-willed and easily-led can see Random Dot Stereograms, according to our research.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>Also, we don't know the side effects of viewing these things. Is there a possibility of RDS Flashbacks? A nation of people suddenly dashing into a shop to buy a can of brand-name Cola just because they've seen what may be a dolphin (but they're not quite sure) out of the corner of their eye.</p>
<p>Whenever I mention this conspiracy theory, it seems that people either want to lock me up for being a nutter, or simply to pummel my face and tell me to shut up. Do I touch a raw nerve? Are they in on the "Big Secret?"</p>
</div>
