---
layout: "article"
title: "Longest Covered Bridge In The World (Earth), The"
subtitle: "The Claim To Fame Of Hartland, New Brunswick, Canada"
author: "Mark Andrew Dykeman"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R106"
permalink: "articles/2R106"
pgg_date: "1994/06/11"
article_date: "1994/06/11"
alternative_title_1: "Bridges, Covered"
alternative_title_2: "Hartland, New Brunswick, Canada, Earth"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1994-06-11 00:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>The tiny town of Hartland, New Brunswick, Canada is, oddly enough, home to the longest covered bridge in the world, Earth in this case. With a length of 1,282 feet, the bridge spans the width of the Saint John River. The bridge, grayish in colour and wooden in construction, is close to 100 years old. No one is quite certain why this last fact is relevant.</p>
<p>In terms of width, the "Longest Covered Bridge in the World" will allow two compact cars to pass each other with only slight discomfort, two full size cars to pass each other with moderately high discomfort, and the simultaneous passage of a utility vehicle and any other vehicle is not recommended. The latter situation has, with great stress and fright caused to passengers, been verified.</p>
<p>Perplexingly enough, the bridge was originally exposed to the open air during the era of horse and buggy travel. Hundreds of wet travellers later, sides and a roof were erected, effectively covering the bridge. In the ages of the modern, covered automobile, the implicit irony is lost on most people. This situation may be compared to carrying an awfully good umbrella, a thick, ultra-protective raincoat, and huge, superbly constructed galoshes on what turns out to be the most stunningly sunny day of the year.</p>
<p>This bridge has been the subject and/or object of books, postcards, graffiti, conversation, pictures, photographs, home videos, teenage passion, and several accidents. No positive correlation has been scientifically verified between the latter two phenomena. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

