---
layout: "article"
title: "Tucker, Ryan Steven"
subtitle: "Yet Another PGG Field Researcher..."
author: "Ryan Tucker"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R122"
permalink: "articles/2R122"
pgg_date: "1994/07/16"
article_date: "1994/07/16"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1994-07-16 00:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Ryan Tucker was born in quaint Ames, Iowa on December 13, 1980. He spent many happy years, five to be exact, playing in sandpiles, piles of toys, and the doghouse, much to the dismay of the dog. All this took place on his family's east Des Moines property. He then went to Delaware Elementary School, which was within walking distance of his home (unfortunately, as a northwest wind often brought the smell of dead students stored in the back room), for kindergarten through fourth grade. He transferred to Centennial Elementary School, in Altoona, Iowa, for sixth grade, having skipped fifth grade due to unusually high intelligence. He quickly advanced to Southeast Polk Junior High School, in Runnells, Iowa, for seventh and eighth grade. In the fall of 1994, he will be attending ninth grade at Southeast Polk High School.</p>
<p>He likes to write humorous poetry, as well as Project Galactic Guide articles. His humourous poetry is known throughout Iowa and beyond.</p>
<p>His hobbies are Amateur Radio, Internet-Hopping, Science Fiction (especially Star Trek: The Next Generation and Deep Space Nine), and researching for Project Galactic Guide. Of course, as anyone who knows him knows he is a weather nut most of all!</p>
<p>He is owned by two cats: Ozzie the 16-pound WatchCat(tm), and Tom the Moebious Moggie. True to his name, Ozzie weighs 16 pounds. Ozzie enjoys lying around, chewing on Purina S/D (Stone-Diet, due to his Feline Urological Syndrome), and licking fingers. He is totally black, with gold eyes. Tom often comes in the house, and immediately wants out, just to want back in again. He is a pet-shop Moggie, and spends most of his time outside, unlike Ozzie who ferments inside. Tom eats normal cat food from a local feed shoppe.</p>
<p>Ryan has two parents. 'Nuf said. His Dad, Dennis Tucker, occasionally co-writes articles for the Guide. His Mom, Leslie Tucker, occasionally complains about Dennis co-writing articles when he could be mowing the lawn.</p>
<p>Ryan spends his computing hours in front of a 20 MHz 386SX clone, with a cheap VGA monitor. His PGG articles are stored on a Vax mainframe in West Des Moines, Iowa. How do they get there? Via a ZyXEL U-1496E V.32b/Fax/Voicemodem. It is connected to a dedicated phone line, separate from the voice phone line.</p>
<p>His cat wants some food, so he has to go now. He says, "My E-Mail address is <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130205230642/mailto:rtucker@ins.infonet.net">rtucker@ins.infonet.net</a>." <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

