---
layout: "article"
title: "Clegg, Paul Jason"
subtitle: "Just A Frood Who Knows Where His Towel Is"
author: "Paul Jason Clegg"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R13"
permalink: "articles/2R13"
pgg_date: "1993/01/05"
article_date: "1993/01/05"
alternative_title_1: "Paul Jason Clegg"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1993-01-05 01:00"
see_also: ["2R4"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Paul Jason Clegg was born sometime in the afternoon of July 28th, 1973, Earth time. He was born in an entirely uninteresting city known as Vineland, New Jersey, USA, Earth. But that's in the past, and, unfortunately, cannot be changed.</p>
<p>Paul, however, does hold the distinction of being Editor number 1 for Project Galactic Guide, and holds the non-corporeal position of general coordinator for the same project.</p>
<p>This is probably the only thing special about Paul; he currently stands at a tall, but not entirely unnatural height of 6.25 feet, and weighs a completely unimportant 155 pounds, depending on the time of day and day of year. His education has amounted to, at this point, three semesters of study at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, majoring in Computer Science, and maintaining a semi-respectable grade point average.</p>
<p>His past achievements include, but are not limited to, attending the New Jersey's Governor's School program (math and science division) in the summer of 1990, and in being the youngest person to ever pass any and several college courses at Cumberland County College. The latter achievements included passing a course in BASIC programming at the age of ten, a course in electronics at age eleven, and a course in "College Math" at age twelve. He also passed a course in Pascal programming at age 16, but that isn't nearly as impressive.</p>
<p>Paul's interests vary; he particularly likes science fiction books, TV shows, and movies, he listens to almost all kinds of music, though he tends to shun country western, rap, dance/club music, and the "big band" sounds of old. His favorite musical group, by far, is Queen. Paul's hobbies include computer programming, role-playing games, painting miniatures, playing wargames, and working on Project Galactic Guide, the latter of which he's put entirely too much effort into already.</p>
<p>You can contact Paul currently via electronic mail, addressing your message to "<a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130205190431/mailto:cleggp@aix.rpi.edu">cleggp@aix.rpi.edu</a>" (sans quotes).</p>
</div>
