---
layout: "article"
title: "Guinea Pig, Being A"
subtitle: "Second Year Through A New Degree Program"
author: "Nicole Aucoin"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R130"
permalink: "articles/2R130"
pgg_date: "1994/07/22"
article_date: "1994/07/22"
alternative_title_1: "Space And Communication Sciences"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1994-07-22 00:00"
see_also: ["2R59", "1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>End of grade 12. Looking through that lovely booklet on University programs. Not knowing what I want to be when (if) I grow up. Suddenly an entry catches my eye under the programs offered by York University in picturesque North York (basically Toronto), Ontario Canada (not to be confused with the York in England):</p>
<blockquote>Space and Communication Sciences</blockquote>
<p>Sounds neat, so I put it down as first choice, and add a couple of other University's astronomy and physics programs. A few weeks later, I find out that they've accepted me, and like a fool, I accept them. Only after this unfortunate fact do I get informed that only one group of students has started this program before my year. Now, true, they did get to be the first guinea pigs, but enough bugs lasted through to us.</p>
<p>Huge work-load, bad ordering of courses, impossible professors. Of course most of that got ironed out as I progressed - the degree changed to a specialized honours from a combined (less courses) and the grade requirement to continue in honours fell a point from a B+ to a B. I've managed to stick with the combined honours - though they tried to convince me to turn to a specialized honours, I had decided that I had done the work for a combined and would finish it up.</p>
<p>The experience was interesting though harrowing at times. What I learned: it's rewarding to know that I have lasted through the hard years (like having hitched a ride with the Wright brothers...); I have gotten to know my program director fairly well - from complaining to him (he's really a nice guy, and since I like to think the best of everyone, I'll say that he didn't <strong>really</strong> want to make University four (or five or six) years of living hell for us). I've got a working knowledge of computers and more physics facts tucked away than I know what to do with, plus a four-year supply of expensive, sometimes useful, usually pretty, textbooks, which unfortunately I won't be able to carry if I decide to visit Andromeda or something.</p>
<p>I'll most likely still try out things that few people have done before, but I'll definitely consult with those few people beforehand. The Guide is helpful with this - all that knowledge that others have gained the hard way, easily available... what bliss! Sometimes it is fun to look before you leap - just make sure that you take a brief glimpse in situations that might turn out to be landing you in a new house, one with iron bars and a nice wheel to play on.</p>
</div>
