---
layout: "article"
title: "Relocation"
subtitle: "Travel Light, And It&apos;s Not A Problem"
author: "Paul Jason Clegg"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R147"
permalink: "articles/2R147"
pgg_date: "1994/07/19"
article_date: "1994/07/19"
alternative_title_1: "Moving To A New Residence"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1994-07-19 00:00"
see_also: ["1R10"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Every once in a while, or more, if you change jobs a lot, a person will move to a new place of residence, such as a new house, apartment, dorm room, or bus station.</p>
<p>This, to put it bluntly, is a major pain in the ass.</p>
<p>It's not that bad, if you're not sentimental, and if you're very sensible about what you keep. However, if you've lived in the same house for over twenty years, and you decide to move, you find out exactly how much crap you've managed to accumulate.</p>
<p>Moving should not be a bad experience for any hitchhiker, since, by definition, hitchhikers are used to travelling light, and relocating often. However, hitchhikers who've been spoiled by travelling light should be warned not to get involved in helping move anyone else.</p>
<p>Husbands will inevitably complain about all the knickknacks their wives insist on keeping, and yet they'll never throw away the spare tire from the car they sold fourteen years ago. Wives will inevitably complain about all the tools their husbands insist on keeping, and yet will not throw out the musty ball of yarn that has since changed color to a sickly green, simply because they insist they'll start knitting again, after seventeen years. Fathers insist on keeping broken things that they will promise to fix after they've moved in, and mothers will never give away any of the closets full of clothes they'll never wear again.</p>
<p>And of course, they'll insist on bringing the furniture, which is just too heavy for a hitchhiker to really be bothered with.</p>
<p>Also, be prepared to break things. Usually, by some luck, the things broken will be things you really didn't need or want anyway, and this will present an excuse to toss it, but don't count on it. Also, don't try to intentionally break something, under the premise of an accident, because anything intentionally broken will always seem intentionally broken, no matter how you try to hide it. This I've learned from experience.</p>
<p>The best time to move is probably the fall or spring, where you can work up a sweat, but then cool off just by doing nothing. Never try to move in the summer, where you sweat just thinking about moving. After a day of moving in 100 degree (Fahrenheit) weather, with a humidity of 75 percent, you will have no fluid left in your body, and you'll probably be very uncomfortable. Unless, of course, you're in the military, and stationed somewhere near the equator, like Texas, in which case this kind of weather is a welcome relief.</p>
</div>
