---
layout: "article"
title: "InterRail And Eurail"
subtitle: "Froody Ways To Explore Europe"
author: "Andrea Berger"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R165"
permalink: "articles/2R165"
pgg_date: "1994/11/12"
article_date: "1994/11/12"
alternative_title_1: "Train Tickets"
alternative_title_2: "Eurail And Interrail"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1994-11-12 01:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {"[1]":"Note: this zone includes an almost free (just 10.000 italian lir. portal fee) to and from Greece from Brindisi, Italy."}
---
<div>
<p>The InterRail (for european citizens), and the Eurail (for people outside the ECC), is a special unlimited mileage monthly rail ticket which allows people under 26 years old to freely travel on national railways in all ECC countries, as well as a lot of eastern ones, and Turkey and Morocco.</p>
<p>The InterRail scheme is the following (Eurail is very similar). You can buy a one-, two-, or three-zone ticket, or a complete all-zones ticket (this one is quite expensive and I suggest it only for people who intend to <em>really</em> travel a lot).</p>
<p>The zones are:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Spain, Portugal, and Morocco</li>
<li value="2">France, Belgium, Luxembourg, and Holland</li>
<li value="3">Great Britain and Ireland</li>
<li value="4">Norway, Sweden, and Finland</li>
<li value="5">Switzerland, Germany, Austria, and Denmark</li>
<li value="6">Italy (big cheer for my own country!), Slovenija, Greece, and Turkey <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>
</li>
<li value="7">Poland, Czech and Slovakia Republics, Bulgaria, Romania, and Hungary</li>
</ol>
<p>If you are from a European country and you buy a ticket including your zone, you only have to pay 50% fare for the tickets inside your country (so the best is get your kicks out of your country as soon as possible). You also get a 50% discount on tickets if you cross countries not included in your zones.</p>
<p>Not included are the supplement and reservation for luxurious train as Intercities, TGV, Talgo, etc. (but no true InterRailer would ever take an intercity with comfortable couchettes when he could sleep in a completely full train, loaded with lots of backpackers from every country in on planet, maybe trying to sleep sneaking in the postal wagon (opened with your swiss knife) and being completely submerged by mail sacks thrown by Austrian postmen, not to mention the unique occasion to taste fried chicken at Wien's station for breakfast).</p>
<p>My advice is to travel during the night -- this will consent you to save time and money on hotels, to get the peculiar perfume you can only obtain in smelly trains (Moroccan and Turkish are the best), and to achieve that particular really tired look which is so glamorous among tanned and relaxed people on vacations. And besides, the really tired girls/boys you will meet are an easer prey for purposes I'm not mentioning 8).</p>
<p>Other cheap places to sleep are the ever-present youth hotels (God praise the YHIF), benches in parks, churchyards, but I'm not explaining these things to true Galactic Hitchhikers.</p>
<p>Some words on the luggage:</p>
<p>If you are planning to walk a lot (and InterRailing means walking a lot), you will have to use a backpack. Some purists think that you only need a very small one, one of the kind used by schoolboys to carry their books.</p>
<p>Mr. Luca Conti in his Inter Rail Man booklet suggests this "ultra compact luggage:"</p>
<ul>
<li>one pair of slips</li>
<li>one pair of shorts (also useful as a swimsuit)</li>
<li>a k-way</li>
<li>one pair of shoes</li>
<li>a shirt</li>
<li>a jacket</li>
<li>a t-shirt</li>
<li>a pair of long trousers (i.e, jeans)</li>
<li>a toothbrush</li>
<li>a shampoo bottle</li>
<li>toilet paper (optional: stealable from hotels, trains, etc.)</li>
</ul>
<p>and, of course...</p>
<ul>
<li>a TOWEL</li>
</ul>
<p>My personal opinion is that a normal backpack could be quite useful, especially if you want to bring those nice and cheap used books you bought in a Danish church until the very comfortable youth hotel in Marrakesh, Morocco.</p>
<p>Now some words on your fellow travellers. I advise you to choose carefully your companions; they must be ready to withstand fatigue, hunger, lack of sleep, greek sailors mistaking you for an Albanian refugee and beating you, sexual harassment, organized tourists, people getting very angry just because you hit them with your backpack while you were only trying to throw it on the bus roof.</p>
<p>The rewards, however, are great: you will be able to see and taste in one month more than in couple of years of ordinary tourism. You will meet lot of interesting and strange people as my Slovenian friends who helped me getting out of a riot in Marrakesh and from a few other little troubles.</p>
<p>Do not build parties of more than 3 people; you will spend most of your time discussing where to go and what to do next. I had a couple of InterRails on my own and I had a great time; I met all my company on the way and I could also decide to go away without any problem at any time.</p>
<p>Another idea is to start agreeing with your companions to split if the occasion would rise (as I did with Marcello who went after some girls in southern France while I headed towards the Moroccan desert) you can also arrange some re-meetings in exotic places, if your friends are trustable.</p>
<p>About the food: if you are on a bit low budget (as I usually am), you can actually survive on cold meals bought in supermarkets and stores (once I managed live a week eating just some tinned tuna I found in my home pantry). Besides, if the season is right, there are lot fruits and vegetables available trees and fields on the road; you have just to be careful of the undisposed farmer.</p>
<p>As a last resort you can also invite yourself to dinners, maybe using your irresistible charm on the opposite sex (on my personal experience this just worked once but if you are more Richard Gearish).</p>
<p>Travelling with an InterRail is a sensation of complete freedom: you can choose where to go next anytime, there are absolutely no preorganized tours, you will always decide with your own head what to do next.</p>
<p>My final advise is to buy an european rail time table from Thomas Cook, an InterRail or Eurail pass, pack your sleeping bag in your backpack and go and try yourself.</p>
<p>This is absolutely not a complete and exhaustive digression on the matter and I claim the right to add, amend, correct, deny, anything I stated. For any comments, ideas, and insults you can find me at:</p>
<blockquote>andrea.berger@altair.it</blockquote>
</div>
