---
layout: "article"
title: "Michigan, USA, Earth"
subtitle: "Give Us A Hand"
author: "Jonathan David Harmon"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R179"
permalink: "articles/2R179"
pgg_date: "1995/02/13"
article_date: "1995/02/13"
alternative_title_1: "Great Lake State, The"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1995-02-13 01:00"
see_also: ["2R175", "2R162", "1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>When looking at any map of the US (or, in most cases, Earth), one area which often catches the eye is the state known as Michigan. This is mostly because the state is made up of two peninsulas, the lower of which resembles a giant mitten.</p>
<p>The shape of the Lower Peninsula of Michigan makes it easy to locate (generally) any city in Michigan using only one's hands. To do this, hold out your right hand, palm up, with the fingers pointing away from you. Place your left hand in front of your right, with the fingers pointing to your right. Line the middle finger of your right hand up with the connection between the pinky finger of your left hand. After representing Michigan in this way, simply point to the spot on either hand of which you speak. Houghton, for instance (the city in which my university, Michigan Tech, is located), is on the first joint of the left thumb, while Clio (my home town), is just right and down from the center of the right hand.</p>
<p>Michigan is famous throughout the world for two things, both of which are produced in great quantities in Detroit, it's largest city: automobiles and crime. Detroit usually ranks in the top ten in the United States for murder rates, and most car companies have their headquarters in Detroit. Whether or not their is any connection is unknown.</p>
<p>The capital city of Michigan is Lansing, a city suitably distant from Detroit to be nice, but not so far away as to be unreachable. Most of the cities in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan (known as the U.P.), however, are exactly that far away. Students of the universities of the U.P, primarily Michigan Technological University, like to brag to others about how far away their school is, while whining to each other about the trip home.</p>
<p>Joining the Lower and Upper Peninsulas is the Mackinaw Bridge, one of the largest bridges in the world. The bridge is a five mile long suspension bridge spanning the Straits of Mackinaw, a narrow region connecting Lake Michigan to Lake Huron.</p>
<p>Michigan borders the states of Wisconsin, Indiana, and Ohio, as well as the country of Canada. The rest of it is surrounded by four of the five Great Lakes: Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, Lake Superior, and Lake Erie. The only Great Lake it doesn't touch is Lake Ontario.</p>
</div>
