---
layout: "article"
title: "Lussier, Stephane"
subtitle: "The First 316 Months Or So Of Stephane Lussier&apos;s Existence"
author: "Stephane Lussier"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R196"
permalink: "articles/2R196"
pgg_date: "1995/06/30"
article_date: "1995/06/30"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1995-06-30 00:00"
see_also: ["6R6"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Without actually being told what life was supposed to be about, Stephane Lussier was thrown out into the physical world on the sixteenth day of a chilly February afternoon. It was 1969. The time: 13h14. The Location: Montreal, Quebec, Canada, planet unknown. The experience must have been traumatic since he can't seem to remember what happened that day.</p>
<p>He had a normal happy childhood. Made a few friends. Received a chunk of paint in his right eye. Ruined a kitchen sink. Got kicked in the right eye by a four-year-old foot. Watched the building on the other side of the street take in fire. Was hit in the right eye with the edge of a broom stick. Fried a few grasshoppers with a giant magnifying-glass. Normal happy childhood.</p>
<p>But somehow, strangers always thought that something was wrong with him. Which isn't such a bother to him since he always thought that there was something wrong with the others. I guess that's what happens to you when you don't mix too much with the crowd.</p>
<p>He was a decent student until he finished high school; he received his honorary certificate almost every year. But as his studies became more serious, his road became more erratic. He studied pure and applied sciences, theoretical computer science, human sciences, followed by management computer science. At 26, he's still an undergraduate and trying to figure out what went wrong.</p>
<p>He received his first computer at age 15: a Timex Sinclair 1000 (also known as ZX81). The same year, he was introduced to roleplaying games. Roleplaying games led him to cartooning and cartooning led him to draw those multiple t-shirt logos and mascot proposals for Project Galactic Guide. It would seem like the Project is encouraging him to write a bit more. He would like to apply his "talents" to other uses and he's collecting all sort of ideas for cartoons and stories.</p>
<p>Culturally speaking, Stephane grew up watching TV from five different cultures: English Canada, French Canada, France, UK and USA. We could say that Douglas Adams is the author who stimulated him to read a bit more, which wasn't a very popular thing to do in his family. He occasionally reads more serious stuff.</p>
<p>His vision in his right eye is somewhat blurrier than in his left one.</p>
</div>
