---
layout: "article"
title: "Restaurant At The End Of The Universe, Nagarkot, Nepal, Earth"
subtitle: "Why Go Any Further?"
author: "Michael Bleyer"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R201"
permalink: "articles/2R201"
pgg_date: "1995/03/22"
article_date: "1995/03/22"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1995-03-22 01:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<h3>How to Get There</h3>
<p>If you're in the area, in other words, walking around the little town of Nagarkot, watch for the signs. You can't miss it. Don't be distracted by the funny names of other restaurants and hotels in Nagarkot, it seems to be some kind of sport there, or maybe it's just to attract tourists. The whole place is not very crowded with people and, while climbing the last few stairs, you begin to ask yourself if someone just forgot to take down the signs when they closed it 5 years ago; don't worry, keep walking, it's there, it's open and yes, they serve food too.</p>
<h3>Why to Go There</h3>
<p>The view, mostly. If you get up before sunrise you'll be rewarded with a most spectacular view of some nice Himalayan mountains, snow covered and all. No, you can't see Mount Everest from there, not even any other 8000ers or even 7000ers, but it's still quite impressive and you don't have to tell anyone when you show your pictures back home. You can also see the valley of Kathmandu on the other side, but it is covered in smog most of the day. And the restaurant itself of course.</p>
<p>The restaurant is a small nice place with just the right size for a party with 20 friends; it has a platform with two lower tables where one can sit cross-legged, much more comfortable than some of the chairs. There are two large panorama-sized windows -- unfortunately one of them faces the wrong side (down to Kathmandu). When you enter, they'll immediately turn up the Nepali rock music on their old tape recorder, and yet somehow you will start to like it because it really fits to the place. The style of the interior decoration eludes any deeper meaning, but most likely you'll be too busy staring out of the windows to notice.</p>
<h3>Food and Drinks</h3>
<p>They have anything a tired Hitchhiker could desire, and it's rather cheap too. Beer and coke is cold, and the menu offers a wide variety of dishes. I was only able to try the banana pancakes (good and not too sweet) and the fried potatoes with chili (very tasty, mjam) and I can recommend both.</p>
<p>You'll be very tempted to stay a while, so be sure to bring some time along, and maybe some friends too. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

