---
layout: "article"
title: "Gravity"
subtitle: "All The Average Person Needs To Know About Gravitation"
author: "Andrew Mark Kuchling"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R21"
permalink: "articles/2R21"
pgg_date: "1993/02/08"
article_date: "1993/02/08"
alternative_title_1: "General Relativity"
alternative_title_2: "Tensor Calculus"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1993-02-08 01:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>One of the most remarkable forces in the universe is known as gravitation. There are other fundamental forces, ranging from the two nuclear forces to electromagnetism, but none of them is of any importance to anyone who doesn't want to spend their life considering time-retarded integrals, group theory, and the horrible decor of physics classrooms. We can see why by considering Newton's law of gravitation:</p>
<dl compact>
<dt>F=G*m<a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>*m<a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>/(r^2)</dt>
<dd>G is a proportionality constant, m<a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> and m<a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a> are the two masses, and r is the distance between them.</dd>
</dl>
<p>As far as we know, G is constant at all times and at all points in the universe. Gravity always attracts (there are no negative masses) while electromagnetism can also repel; thus, it is extremely difficult to build up a large amount of charge in one location. Gravity decreases with r^2, while the nuclear forces decrease with e^r, meaning they are noticeable only over subatomic distances.</p>
<p>Therefore, these other forces can be safely left to the glossy pages of physics journals, where they won't cause any harm beyond the publication of theoretical papers. (Physics lore claims that, asked to prove the stability of a table, a theoretical physicist can quickly derive a solution for a table with an infinite number of legs, and will then spend the next thirty years trying to solve the special case of a table with a finite, non-zero number of legs.) Gravity, on the other hand, is important to anyone who wants to travel through space and arrive at a given point on the first try. The various theories of gravitation lead to many interesting results, such as bread always falling on the carpet with the butter-and- jam side down, black holes forming, and lost change vanishing into sofa crevices.</p>
<p>Unfortunately, all these really interesting gravitational phenomena require a knowledge of General Relativity to understand. Newtonian gravity is almost exclusively used to derive orbits, and celestial mechanics has become a nightmare of eccentricities, tidal forces, and mathematical techniques all invented by Frenchmen whose names begin with 'L'. Any society needing really accurate orbital calculations is capable of building computers able to numerically integrate them.</p>
<p>Therefore, in the real universe you don't have to worry about getting actual symbolic expressions for orbital parameters; it's simpler to dump all the masses and velocities into a suitable program and hope the programmers responsible for the floating point routines weren't prone to forgetting to check the carry flag.</p>
<p>General Relativity, on the other hand, deals with black holes, space warps, time travel, and all the other things one finds badly mangled in Shirley MacLaine's books. To do this, however, one is forced to use tensor calculus, a generalization of vector and scalar calculus that is best defined as the field where one uses every Greek letter as both super- and sub-scripts simultaneously. Many theorems can be proved by writing down some basic equations and manipulating them until an error is made that lets the proof be easily completed. (Confusing the letter zeta with anything else is frequently used. When handwritten, either very quickly or with the greatest care, zeta always ends up looking like a random squiggle; there is a Nobel Prize waiting for anyone who manages to replace zeta with something simpler, like a 10-stroke Chinese ideogram.)</p>
<p>Errors in derivations have occasionally caused comical results; for example, one result for the effect of emission of gravitational radiation by two orbiting neutron stars was antidamping. The emission of the radiation would supposedly increase the orbital velocities, and hence increase further emission, and so on. Someone actually managed to get that result published, thus proving that inhaling chalk dust over long periods does indeed cause brain damage.</p>
<p>While a knowledge of all of the above may be useful for small talk at cocktail parties, it probably isn't. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

