---
layout: "article"
title: "Harvard Square, Boston, Massachusetts, USA, Earth"
subtitle: "Mostly Preppie"
author: "Loren Haarsma"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R3"
permalink: "articles/2R3"
pgg_date: "1992/01/20"
article_date: "1992/01/20"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1992-01-20 01:00"
see_also: ["1R2", "1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>In the great city-state of Boston, and in its collection of semi-autonomous suburbs, Geometry has taken it on the chin. In these cities, whenever two or more major streets intersect at a strange angle (and major streets, when they intersect at all, invariably intersect at strange angles) it is designated a "square." And just to send Geometry running away screaming, these "squares" are given names. In the city of Cambridge (just to the north of Boston) it just so happens that Massachusetts Avenue, J.F.K. Street, and Mount Auburn Street all intersect near Harvard University. And it is called -- surprisingly enough -- "Harvard Square." (This is surprising because the names of nearly all the other "squares" make no sense whatsoever.)</p>
<p>If you should hitchhike to Harvard University (Driving is out of the question, since it is impossible to find a parking spot anywhere near Harvard Square. The most clever hitchhikers will avoid hitchhiking altogether and take the subway.) in order to gaze at its splendid library, or to marvel in its awesome museums, or -- best of all -- to visit a rich relative who happens to be enrolled there, then you will probably spend some time wandering around Harvard Square.</p>
<p>Harvard Square is the place in the United States -- outside of southern California -- where you are most likely to encounter several preppies dressed in izods getting their picture taken in front of a "Join the Revolutionary Communist Youth League of America" banner. The Square itself is a several-block region of shops and restaurants near the University. Since most, if not all, of the land is owned by the University, the business establishments must pay an obscene amount of rent, and they pass these costs on to the customers.</p>
<p>When touring Boston in general, and Harvard Square in particular, you should either purchase a street map, or expect to ask directions 5 or 6 times before finding your desired destination. You should think of each of these events as "mini-adventures."</p>
<p>RESTAURANTS: Most restaurants charge $4-5 for lunch and $8-10 for dinner. There are many restaurants, but my recommendations are:</p>
<pre>
          CHINESE:  "Chef Chow's" on Church Street in "The Atrium;"
             excellent food, good prices, and you can amuse yourself by
             trying to figure out why the establishment hires twice as many
             waiters and waitresses as it needs.
          INDIAN:  "India Gate" on Holyoke Street; excellent vegetarian
             dishes and breads.
          MEXICAN:  "Border Cafe" on Church Street; expect a loooong wait.
          PIZZA:  Although some Harvardians like the pizza places around
             here, I suggest you order out and get it delivered.
          FAST:  "_Au Bon Pain_" on Mass Av; a pricy McDonald's with an
             attitude.
          GENERIC:  "Grendles" on J.F.K. Street; good prices, fair food, but
             the atmosphere is "very Harvard," and hey, as long as you're in
             the neighborhood, why not?  Good music.
          GENERIC:  "The Wurst House" on J.F.K. Street; I'm told it has good
             beer, but the food totally failed to impress me.
          ICE CREAM:  All the shops are adequate.
</pre>
<p>On <em>no account</em> should you be persuaded to eat at a cafeteria on campus. If you cannot afford a restaurant, then go into "Store 24" (on Mass Av.) and purchase a pre-made, pre-wrapped sandwich. They will let you use their microwave and sell you some very bad coffee for a quarter.</p>
<p>PARKING GARAGE: On Holyoke Street. Maybe.</p>
<p>HOTELS: You can't afford them.</p>
<p>It is impossible throw a pedestrian in Harvard Square without hitting half a dozen book stores, none of which carry enough "Doonesbury." Decent prices, though. If you are into shabby little sci-fi bookstores where the owners know more trivia than any sane person should, you will find one located just above the "Wurst House" on J.F.K. Street, called "Pandemonium."</p>
<p>Speaking of pedestrians, you should <em>never never</em> simply step out into the street and expect the cars to stop for you. They won't.</p>
<p>The movie theaters in Harvard Square almost never show any interesting movies. This is probably because every movie house in the greater Boston area is owned by Loewe's Theater Megacorp.</p>
<pre>
OTHER PLACES OF INTEREST:
          THE GARAGE:  on J.F.K. Street.  A mini-mall and student hang-out
             whose interior is inexplicably designed like a parking garage.
          OUT OF TOWN NEWS:  perhaps the largest news stand you will ever
             see, located in the heart of Harvard Square, carrying newspapers
             from cities you've never heard of.
          THE FUNNY FARM:  a little shop located on Eliot Street; hard to
             find but worth the effort.  They sell many varieties of wind-up,
             battery-driven, and otherwise-mobile toys.  It's a place where
             you can find store owners almost certainly stranger than
             yourself.
          CATCH A RISING STAR:  on J.F.K. Street.
             Not-yet-ready-for-the-club-scene performers.
          THE SPORTS CLUB:  on J.F.K. Street.  Particularly amusing to
             observe the patrons when the Red Sox/Patriots/Celtics/Bruins are
             losing a critical game, as they so frequently do.
          THE CHARLES RIVER:  no, that's not a store or a shop.  That's the
             real, actual river.  It's pronounced, "Chaahhles."  There's a
             nice little park along the banks.
          STREET PERFORMERS:  all over the place during warm afternoons and
             evenings, particularly on weekends.  Some of them are quite
             good.
</pre>
<p>Many stores sell "official Harvard insignia" clothing, mugs, pencils, notebooks, and just about anything else you can think of, including towels. All of it is overpriced. A word of warning to avoid embarrassment: the "Harvard Co-operative Society" book/everything-else store (located on Mass Av.) is called "The Coop." Not "The Co-op," but "The Coop." As in "chicken." This is simply yet another inexplicable aspect of the greater Boston area.</p>
</div>
