---
layout: "article"
title: "Watford, London, England, UK, Earth"
subtitle: "The Town Of Watford, North-West Of London, England, UK, Earth"
author: "Alexander Lachlan McLintock"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R33"
permalink: "articles/2R33"
pgg_date: "1993/03/15"
article_date: "1993/03/15"
alternative_title_1: "Places Not To Admit Living In"
alternative_title_2: "Watford, London Underground Metropolitan Line"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1993-03-15 01:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>For those of you not in the know, Watford is a small town on the north-west out-skirts of London, United Kingdom, Earth, Dimensions 12, 134, and 500 through to 667. It is surprisingly easy to get to. And rather difficult to leave. It is just on the inside of the M25 ring road, junction 20 or 21. As is common with most areas of London, driving is impossible. (But Hitchhikers take note! When someone with a company car offers you a lift to the pub, accept!)</p>
<p>Another favourite pastime of the locals is to find other methods of transport from A to B via C. From my room I have the choice of taking the tube from Watford Station (Metropolitan Line) and taking a slow train into London, stopping at almost every stop. This takes five minutes walk and an hours train ride. ("the tube" is a common term for London Underground's system of Subway Trains). A second method of transport is by British Rail. This involves walking 30 minutes to Watford Junction BR station, and a two stop train journey to Euston, taking just 30 minutes or so.</p>
<p>You would be right in guessing that this guide researcher chooses the method requiring less perambulation.</p>
<p>Nightclubs:</p>
<p>There are a couple, however, this researcher can't report on them from experience. After being driven past one of them and counting 9 police cars parked outside the desire to go elsewhere was strengthened.</p>
<p>Pubs:</p>
<p>Quite a few nice ones. Make sure you try the country pubs around Watford if you can get there, and have some means of returning to your lodgings without driving.</p>
<p>Electronics Shop:</p>
<p>There is one which has received continually bad reports from many customers over many years. Avoid. (See References to Tottenham Court Road. )</p>
<p>Business Park:</p>
<p>The two business parks of West Watford are quite nice places to work, if you are forced to. But a helicopter is needed to get to work in the morning, as the single road leading to both parks becomes a little M25 (i.e. a large car-park).</p>
<p>People in London use Watford as a marker. What it marks is the end of the civilized world. Culture starts in various points of London, most notably the West End, Leicester Square (with all the cinemas) and Forbidden Planet the science fiction bookshop.</p>
<p>In the UK, the North South divide is reversed with the South being the more prosperous (snobbish) part of the country and the North (or "up norff" as it is fondly referred to) being the more heavily industrialized and unemployed regions. This divide is sometimes called the "Watford Gap" but is strangely nowhere near Watford.</p>
<p>Disclaimer: Any inaccuracies in the above are deeply regretted. Tough luck. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

