---
layout: "article"
title: "Bushkill Falls"
subtitle: "Bushkill Falls In Bushkill, Pennsylvania, USA, Earth"
author: "Vincent Joseph Shuta"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R49"
permalink: "articles/2R49"
pgg_date: "1993/10/20"
article_date: "1993/10/20"
alternative_title_1: "The Niagara Of Pennsylvania"
alternative_title_2: "Fudge, Great"
alternative_title_3: "Romance"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1993-10-20 00:00"
see_also: ["2R51", "2R50", "1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>There are a great many places on this planet which contain more than their share of natural beauty. One of these can be found just south of the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Area in Pennsylvania. In the small town of Bushkill, PA, there is a reasonably large concentration of reasonably impressive waterfalls, set aside picturesque woods and pathways. The overall effect is stunning. And although the falls are not quite as big as Niagara Falls, one gets the impression that the overall atmosphere is quite a bit more romantic. This balance between size, beauty, and romance has earned Bushkill Falls (as it is naturally enough known) the name "The Niagara of Pennsylvania."</p>
<p>The length of the path you take depends on what specific waterfalls you wish to see, how much time you have, and how much walking you wish to do. The first of the falls is pretty close to the entrance and is worth the trip itself. Or, one can walk for hours along the longer paths and not be disappointed.</p>
<p>The longer trails are especially nice if you are walking with someone you would like to get to know (or, someone you already know well, and just wish to talk with). The falls are exceptionally relaxing and conducive to conversation.</p>
<p>Outside the falls are a number of shops where rather nice souvenirs can be bought. There is a cafeteria where one may purchase standard cafeteria items, a small exhibit of stuffed versions of the local wildlife, and an ice cream/funnel cake/fudge shop of special note. Although I have yet to try the funnel cake, the ice cream was quite good and the fudge is of exceptional quality. All fudge is made on the premises, and you can watch it being made at posted times.</p>
<p>In addition, there is also a miniature golf course if your tendencies are toward miniature golf, and areas for fishing and paddle boating. The paddle boats are interesting creations which have the ability of splashing water on the back of your legs whenever you are travelling forward (traveling backwards eliminates the splashing). Thus, it acts as a cooling effect in summer and as another conversation opener in spring and fall ("Oh, did you get your pants wet too?")</p>
<p>DIRECTIONS FROM SCRANTON, PA TO BUSHKILL FALLS:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Take Route 81 South to the junction of Route 81 South and Route 380 East.</li>
<li value="2">Follow Route 380 East until the junction with Route 80 East.</li>
<li value="3">Follow Route 80 East until it suddenly becomes 209 North around Stroudsburg.</li>
<li value="4">Follow the signs on 209 North until you reach Bushkill Falls.</li>
</ol>
<p>NOTE: For some reason the first 3 or 4 signs on Route 209 North claim that the falls are 8 miles away. Obviously this is not the case, because signs are not that close together. It was probably either an oversight or a deliberate move to keep the admission price down. Either way, don't watch the odometer that closely, and enjoy your day.</p>
<p>DIRECTIONS FROM SOMEWHERE OTHER THAN SCRANTON, PA TO BUSHKILL FALLS:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Go to Scranton, PA.</li>
<li value="2">Follow the directions from Scranton, PA to Bushkill Falls.</li>
</ol>
</div>
