---
layout: "article"
title: "Berlin, Germany, Earth"
subtitle: "An Ultimately Nice, Really Megafroody Place"
author: "Klaus v. Knoblauch"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R6"
permalink: "articles/2R6"
pgg_date: "1992/06/29"
article_date: "1992/06/29"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1992-06-29 00:00"
see_also: ["1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Well, I suppose you'll reach Berlin by anything, doesn't matter, as long as you're there. There is lot to say about how to fool the East-German customs officers and buy tax-free booze and fags in transit through DDR and get them into town; however, since they've torn the wall, which is widely considered a bad move, and has made many people quite angry, this has become immaterial. The only reason I mention it at all is to produce more lines and to pretend that I'd know it.</p>
<h3>The Wall:</h3>
<p>First of all a little joke:</p>
<p>Do you know why the Chinese people always show such a mysterious smile, expressing something like "Well, I know that you'd love to know why I'm grinning like this, but I won't tell, 'cause if I did you'd be wondering why someone can grin like that for such reasons." ?</p>
<p>Well, they do so because their Chinese Wall is still undamaged.</p>
<p>Since the wall was torn down in 1990, it can no longer be visited. But you can still buy pieces of it from many street dealers. Don't worry, if you can visit Berlin only in late 2001, there'll be still street dealers, selling those nice lightly colored Original-Berliner-Mauer-Brick-Parts, and there will always be smart froods spraying graffities to house-walls, tearing them down and sell the parts to tourists (slang expression Turissis). There's more to say about these street dealers and the Russian army caps, wrist watches, and Kalashnikows they sell, but this will come under 'Souvenirs.'</p>
<h3>Culture:</h3>
<p>There is. Buy a Berlin-Culture-Guide; it lists all museums, galleries, concert halls, churches, congress places and public lavatories. Buying it, you'll not only get all important information, but also help the suffering tourist-industry-managers to a new Mercedes car. Thank You for doing so.</p>
<h3>Music:</h3>
<p>There is. Buy ear protecting devices.</p>
<h3>Universities:</h3>
<p>There are several: the Free University, the Technical University, The Humbold University, The Hochschule der Kuenste, and a public lavatory. They all are places for students to hang around, drink a lot, breed new students, and give free UseNet access to them. Irrelevant, completely.</p>
<h3>The Zoo:</h3>
<p>There are. Yes, are! Berlin has two zoos (actually three) due to the fact, that before the wall was torn, everything had to be kept in two copies, one for the capitalist <em>West-Berlin</em> and one for the communist <em>Hauptstadt der DDR</em>. Now that Berlin has become the capital of Germany, for most of these, only the capitalist ones survived. Exceptions to this rule prove it. The third "Zoo" is actually referring to a big railroad station, but many interesting lifeforms can be watched here, too. The (former-has-been) West-Berlin Zoo is called Zoo (Zoologischer Garten). As you enter it, beware of one of the elephants, which likes to throw sand at the tourists. In the carnivore-house beware of one of the lions, which likes to piss at the tourists. In the night-animal house beware of pickpockets. The (now-no-longer) East-Berlin Zoo is called Der Tierpark which could be translated as "The Animal Park" which is nonsense. No <em>special</em> precautions are necessary.</p>
<h3>Sex:</h3>
<p>There is. Buy a Berlin-Sex-Guide; it lists all sexshops, gay-sexshops, porno cinemas, brothels, single-whores and public lavatories. Buying it, you'll not only get all important information, but also help the suffering tourist-industry-managers to a new Mercedes car. Thank you for doing so.</p>
<h3>The Ku-Damm (Kurfuerstendamm):</h3>
<p>Like in many other cities, there is a thing like downtown in Berlin, only, it is not called downtown, towncentre or any other commonly used expression, but The Ku-Damm. Don't get misled by the fact that there is also a road called Ku-Damm; this is only the center of the towncentre. There are other really froody spots in town rather than The Ku-Damm, but you should visit them only if you:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">are after fun</li>
<li value="2">own a knife or gun, or are familiar with karate<br>
and other survival techniques</li>
<li value="3">will not easily be recognized as a tourissi</li>
</ol>
<h3>History:</h3>
<p>There is. Buy a Berlin-History-Guide; it lists all castles, small castles, government castles, old churches, new churches, parliament house, and public lavatories. Buying it, you'll not only get all important information, but also help the suffering tourist-industry-managers to a new Mercedes car. Thank You for doing so.</p>
<h3>Sightseeing-Tours:</h3>
<p>They are a rip. Better hire a cab and tell the driver to take you to the next corner on the fastest way. You'll have a lot more fun (especially when you see the bill).</p>
<h3>Adventures:</h3>
<p>There are many adventures to join in Berlin. A very good place for doing so is Kreuzberg (crosshill). Again, don't get misled by the hill Kreuzberg, which is also in Berlin, but at a completely different place. SO36 (ESSO sexondthryssik, phonetically spelled) is what you should tell the cab-driver. Getting a cab driver taking you there is already the first adventure. Joining adventures in Kreuzberg is simple: shave your head and just move around. The adventure (skinhead-loathing Turks, Asians, East Europeans, Italians, or any other intelligent live forms will approach you and take care of everything else, including your mortal remains. These will be taken care of by the BSR, who have a special department for this, and will be recycled as Doner-Kebab, Hamburger, or Curry-Wurst, the latter of which tastes almost absolutely but not completely unlike a hot dog.</p>
<h3>Science:</h3>
<p>There is. Buy a Berlin-Science-Guide; it lists all Universities, Institutes, Experimental stations, nature observing stations, astronomical observatories, and public lavatories. Buying it, you'll not only get all important information, but also help the suffering tourist-industry-managers to a new Mercedes car. Thank you for doing so.</p>
<h3>Souvenirs:</h3>
<p>Well, you know, there are these souvenir-shops. They are exactly like in each other town, only instead London-Tower-models they sell Funkturm-models and instead Saint-Pauls-T-shirts they sell Kaiser-Wilhelm-Gedaechtnis-Kirche T-shirts. A lot more fun to buy souvenirs from are those many street dealers, which I already mentioned above. These smart froods make their living out of the fact that the wall was torn down, the real (existing) socialism in the (former-has-been) USSR has crashed, and the Russian, American, English and French soldiers moved out of Berlin. Especially the Russians are most valuable for them: after all that Crash (Wall, Socialism, USSR etc.) first happened, many Russian soldiers sold their army-caps, medals, onion-style watches and Kalashnikovs. Meanwhile, all these Original-Russian-Army-Souvenirs are all standard "Made in Hong Kong" quality, and of course the Kalashnikovs are no longer sold (except the Made-in-Taiwan-plastic-ones).</p>
<h3>Tea (where to get a cup of):</h3>
<p>In almost every restaurant, but in no public lavatories you'll be served tea. You can get Ceylon-, Broken Orange Pekoe-, Darjeeling-, Russian-, Turkish, Japanese-, several fruit and haschisch (cannabis) tea.</p>
</div>
