---
layout: "article"
title: "Jumping Off Cliffs And Other High Places"
subtitle: "How To And How Not To Use Jumping As A Means Of Transportation"
author: "Roel van der Meulen"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R67"
permalink: "articles/2R67"
pgg_date: "1994/02/08"
article_date: "1994/02/08"
alternative_title_1: "Suicide"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1994-02-08 01:00"
see_also: ["2R68", "2U38", "2U23", "2R21", "2U10", "2R11", "2R8"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Unless you are familiar with the trick of one of the recreational impossibilities: walking through mountains.","[2]":"Whether K2 or Mount Everest is the largest mountain on Earth mostly depends on the way of measurement. Is it the pressure of the atmosphere measured (at the top), or is the distance measured from the foot of the mountain with help of a measuring tape?"}
---
<div>
<p>There are several reasons people have for jumping off cliffs, tall buildings, and the like.</p>
<p>One is that they may be tired of life. Jumping then is a certain way to end it (except if you're a cat or a bird, but I don't really expect birds to read this article, or for that matter, to contemplate committing suicide). Jumping is OK if you're tired of life and want to stop it all. But take care: if you intend to end your life on this Earth in order to move on to another, you are seriously mistaken. There is no other life. The one you are in now <strong>is</strong> the Life After Death. Your previous (unknown) existence was the LIFE. So don't kill yourself for that reason.</p>
<p>If you are falling after having jumped and your intention was not to kill yourself (but you tripped, got pushed, or had another reason to jump) the jump might even be quite amusing. For one, there is the magnificent view and the changing of perspective (merely talking about the optical one). But there is also the free-fall-feeling that one doesn't experience a lot during a lifetime. And then there's the free free-falling cinema: the story of your life. I expect that that film will be a bit less entertaining if your intention <strong>was</strong> to commit suicide. But on average: the higher you jump, the more entertaining the jump is.</p>
<p>I doubt this is a very probable reason, but you could also want to jump and kill yourself for the purpose of taking someone specific with you in the process, i.e. to murder someone kamikaze-style. Here I have to warn you: aiming is almost impossible. I can't speak from experience, but common sense is enough. Especially in crowded regions like cities (where you are also likely to find some of those tall buildings), you are sure to take one or two other people with you without ever knowing who they are/were.</p>
<p>Another reason for jumping is the misleading concept that people can fly without further help from machines or other contraptions. There have been lots of examples of flying people in comics and books, but remember this is only fiction! Even the idea of jumping and then getting distracted and missing the ground completely is fiction. The ground is an almost infinitely large target and you <strong>will</strong> hit it -- whether you are crazy and believe you are Superman or not makes no difference.</p>
<p>Jumping off high places with special equipment (not just a red cape) will reduce the chances of death (death caused by severe gravity effects, that is). Jumping with a large elastic band tied to your body (and to something else, which can easily be forgotten), jumping with a parachute, hang-glider, jet pack, paraglider, and ultralight are even considered to be sports.</p>
<p>As a means of transportation, ordinary jumping can not really be considered a different form of air travel. It is in fact just an unsuccessful variation to walking and a very tiring one too. That is, if you're not a frog or a kangaroo. You might accidentally be forced to this way of travel if you've propped both your legs in the same trouser leg. In this case it is easier to stop and get it right than to continue this action for the rest of the day.</p>
<p>And then there is the easy help a jump can provide when changing between transportation modes. For instance, jumping on a train (not actually standing on top of a train doing some stupefying train-surfing, and during that trying to jump over the mountain of which you can rapidly see a tunnel approaching with a height too small for you to survive your antics <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>, but walking or running and then stepping into a train. People might say not an actual jump is involved here, and that this is all just a question of semantics. They might be correct), jumping on a plane (not actually...), jumping on a bike (if this is not carried out with the utmost care an accident with some high-pitch wailing might result), or taking a running jump (what everyone who says this isn't a good example can do).</p>
<p>Conclusion on jumping altogether: I don't think you really want to do this.</p>
<h3>Great buildings and cliffs to not jump off of:</h3>
<p>Rotterdam, the Netherlands, Earth has one nicely tall building in the centre (Nationale Nederlanden). Because there are hardly any high-rise buildings (yet, but they're sure to sprout soon because Rotterdam wants to present itself as a true metropolis), the view from the top must be magnificent. In Rotterdam there is also a thing called the Euromast, best translated as Europole (not to be confused with Europol, an entirely different thing altogether). This thing is made for taking a view from, so it will cost you.</p>
<p>The Empire State Building, New York, New York, USA, Earth is a very good place to not jump from. For one, it has a lot of nets preventing you from jumping, but it also gives you a magnificent view of Manhattan and some more bits of New York. That is, provided it doesn't rain. The only time I've been on the Empire State Building was during a thunderstorm, so I'm not exactly the guy to recommend trying it. And I'm not a rain god either.</p>
<p>Angel Point, Grand Canyon North Side, USA, Earth is also a fine point to not jump from.</p>
<p>One could also try to not jump off of Mount Everest. It (controversially <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>), being the highest mountain on Earth, offers a magnificent view over the Himalayas. The trick in ascending again is indeed not to jump, for a small jump for man will result in sliding a long way down, occasionally hitting an empty can of Coca-Cola with your head and then slowly but inevitably tumbling off the edge of a cliff, never to be seen again by mankind.</p>
<p>If <strong>YOU</strong> know of any nice places to not jump off of, please do not hesitate to write me, or better still, to write an article about it!</p>
</div>
