---
layout: "article"
title: "Means Of Transportation For The Earth-Confined Hitchhiker"
subtitle: "Compendium Of Transportation Methods"
author: "Roel van der Meulen"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R68"
permalink: "articles/2R68"
pgg_date: "1994/03/11"
article_date: "1994/03/11"
alternative_title_1: "Transportation"
alternative_title_2: "Hitchhiking"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1994-03-11 01:00"
see_also: ["2R50", "2R67"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Hitchhiking is a phenomenon of all times. Depending how wide you take the definition of hitchhiking, almost everyone that ever existed has at least once in their life hitched a hike. Think, for instance, about the big migration of the nations. Of course lots of things have changed since those times. The further you go back in history, the smaller the variety and the smaller the number of ways to hitchhike there are. In those days travel was also a lot slower. Imagine for instance hitching a hike from a friendly peasant on his oxen-propelled cart.</p>
<p>The world today shows us a tremendous variety of ways to travel, a very large amount of vehicles to do it with, and terrific speeds to do it by. Imagine hitching a hike for a few hundred metres on a jet propelled dragster.</p>
<p>To explore as much as possible ways of transportation for today's hitch- hiker, to recognize a means of transportation when you see one, and to find out the properties of all of these methods from your comfortable chair, I have compiled the list that you will find below. As the means of transportation for the Earth-confined hitchhiker expand by the day, you are encouraged to add more and more to this list. We want to know what means of transportation we hadn't thought of yet, how comfortable they are, how fast and how far you can get with them, what your contribution to the travelling party will be, who you will meet using that means of transportation, and especially how much FUN you can have using this means of transportation.</p>
<p>So enjoy and use the list below and write some stuff yourself! (Note that this is an excellent excuse to do all kinds of irresponsible things.)</p>
<h3>Land Travel</h3>
<pre>
Elevator      Gets you from one floor to an arbitrary other.  Elevators are
              noted to have their own character (programming).
Wheelchair    Never attempt to cross a desert in a wheelchair.  In that
              case take a....
Sandbuggy     Looks like toy telephone with wheels, except for the phone.
Escalator     Not really exiting.  Only takes you from one floor to the
              next.  Invent your own excitement, like getting stuck.
Bicycle       Pedal yourself around the world!
Tricycle      If you want to ride a bike but can't keep your balance.
Motorbike     How does one recognize the happy biker?  Flies on his teeth.
Bus           Mostly no toilets in there; make sure you take a leak first.
              Japanese used to put prisoners of war on long bus rides with
              water dripping right next to the poor soldiers.
Car           Most common.
Train         Possible to do some train surfing.  DUCK!!!
Truck         Various kinds.  Example: Garbage Truck
Walking       Do you really want to do THIS?
</pre>
<h3>Water Travel</h3>
<pre>
Paddle Boats  Hitler's nightmare.
Raft          Careful with sharp objects, i.e. earrings, staples, etc.
Canoe         Yes, they are very easy to tip over.
Kayak         The ancient ones did have hair.
Speedboat     Can go pretty fast, but it bumps a lot.
Water Skis    Without a speedboat you're nothing.
Submarine     A good test to see if you're claustrophobic.  Too bad you can
              not get out if it becomes too much for you.
Ship          Jargon: hitchhiker = stow-away.  Imagine a ship is a Vogon
              vessel and you've pretty well got the idea.
Ferry         The easy way.  Unless there's going to be/has been a soccer
              match at your destination/the place you left (martial arts).
Swimming      Do you really want to do THIS?
</pre>
<h3>Air Travel</h3>
<pre>
Plane         Difficult.  Pretending to be luggage is not a good idea.
              There is hardly any other way to get on board without paying.
              Security is very strict at airports.
Helicopter    Go to a near mountain far from the civilized world.  Break
              your leg.  Getting out of the hospital is the difficult bit.
Rocket        Forget it!
Ultralight    Also frequently an ingredient of a large range of food
              products.
Paraglider    The adventures of James the Birdman.
Canon         Can get you a little bit further.  Only then you=little bits.
              (Messy business).  Don't believe Jules Verne.
Missile       (Nuclear).  Can get you reasonably far provided you manage to
              avoid security n-times worse than on airports.  To survive
              the journey: bring your own oxygen.  To survive the landing:
              ???   Landing usually involves a great deal of spreading
              yourself over large areas and disintegrating.
Flying Carpet Amazingly well-suited for imaginary journeys.  Not so
              amazingly well-suited for about anything else.
Jumping       Do you really want to do THIS?
</pre>
</div>
