---
layout: "article"
title: "Latin, On The _Ad Hoc_ Use Of"
subtitle: "How Sentences, That Were A Priori Fine, Can Be Classically Garbled"
author: "David McGregor Squire"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R69"
permalink: "articles/2R69"
pgg_date: "1994/03/14"
article_date: "1994/03/14"
alternative_title_1: "Latin"
alternative_title_2: "Languages"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1994-03-14 01:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {"[1]":"The translations being \"King\" and \"I am faithful,\" retrospectively."}
---
<div>
<p>The first thing that must be done (lest it be thought that I have a secret agenda) in this article is to define some notation. Throughout this article, Latin words will be placed in italics. Since I am restricted to 7-bit ascii, this will be indicated by enclosing italicized words in underscores. For example, <em>exempli gratia</em> is in italics. This formalism is necessary to prevent Latin from sneaking into the article incognito.</p>
<p>Let me stress that I have nothing against Latin <em>qua</em> Latin. It is a noble language, and indeed it is the root of approximately three-quarters of the English lexicon. In fact, there are quite a few words that are now considered to be English that have come straight from the Latin. An example is <em>exit</em>. In theatre scripts, one often sees the variant <em>exeunt omnes</em>, but then theatre people have always been noted for carrying on like all get out. Show me a playwright and I will show you an <em>ego</em>.</p>
<p>I have no problem with the use of Latin <em>per se</em>. For example, how many people realize that by naming their dogs <em>Rex</em> or <em>Fido</em>, they have <em>ipso facto</em> unwittingly named them in Latin? <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a></p>
<p>There is a disturbing trend, however, for Latin to find its way into English sentences where there is no <em>bona fide</em> justification for it. Often a speaker (or an author) will use a Latin phrase in an attempt to flaunt their education. Dropping Latin phrases into one's sentences (<em>quid pro quo</em>,<em>deus ex machina</em>, <em>et cetera</em>) is in many ways a <em>de facto</em> equivalent in academic circles of the name-dropping practiced by celebrities and their hangers-on. Rather than trying to suggest that they were almost caught <em>in flagrante delicto</em> with Claudia Schiffer, the academic will drop the occasional Latin phrase in the hope that his listeners will think that he is an <em>emeritus</em> professor who graduated <em>summa cum laude</em> from <em>literae humaniores</em> at his <em>Alma Mater</em>, Oxford.</p>
<p>Of course, attempting to <em>ad lib.</em> with Latin phrases in English is not without risk. The <em>onus</em> is on the speaker to avoid errors. Imagine the derision to which an airline official would be subjected if he claimed that a bomb had been allowed onto a plane (in the luggage of a person who did not board the flight) due to a manifest <em>non sequitur</em>.</p>
<p>One must also be very careful about spelling. I have seen people write things like <em>add norseum</em> [sick], which looks like an instruction from a recipe incorporating Vikings. Errors such as this will very quickly result in one becoming <em>persona non grata</em> with the very people one was setting out to impress.</p>
<p>There is a more subtle trap for the unwary Latin user. Occasionally an innocent Latin phrase can sound quite rude when heard by native English speakers. I am sure that Queen Elizabeth II would never have used the expression <em>annus horribilis</em> if she had considered the sort of puns that the tabloid press were likely to come up with <em>a posteriori</em>.</p>
<p>Do not be totally discouraged. I do think there is a place for the occasional bit of Latin-dropping. Any attempt to eliminate Latin from English usage would quickly result in a <em>reductio ad absurdem</em>. My advice is simply this: Be careful. Be sure of your facts before you seize the day and use <em>carpe diem</em> in a sentence.</p>
<p>--- <em>FINIS</em> ---</p>
<p><em>Postscriptum</em>: The number of Latin words that are used in this way is very large. I could continue producing examples (for instance, <em>ad infinitem</em>) forever. I think, however, that I have proved that which had to be proved. <em>Ergo</em>, I see no need to discuss phrases such as <em>quod erat demonstrandem</em>.</p>
</div>
