---
layout: "article"
title: "Meulen, Roel Van Der"
subtitle: "One Of The Field Researchers Of PGG"
author: "Roel van der Meulen"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R72"
permalink: "articles/2R72"
pgg_date: "1995/02/20"
article_date: "1995/02/20"
alternative_title_1: "Meulen, Roelof Daniel Van Der"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1995-02-20 01:00"
see_also: ["2R160", "2R177", "2R144", "6R30", "6R58"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Strictly speaking, my life started somewhere in the Swiss Alps; to be more precise, Adelboden, on a winter holiday of my parents. But officially my life begun when I was born in Delft, The Netherlands, on October 13th 1968. After hanging around in the area for three years, our small family moved to Gouda (pretty much the same area when you're not used to living in a country as large as a medium sized pizza, and the enlarging effects that has on small distances). Gouda is known for its cheese, candles, and stroopwafels (treacle-wafers).</p>
<p>Then there was a two year intermezzo in Tarvin, Cheshire, England, UK, where I acquired the basis of the grubby English you've been able to observe in my articles. After that my parents, my little brother and I went back to Gouda and stayed there for two years before we moved to Waddinxveen (known for the Gouda Treacle-wafer factory, the Gouda-Candles factory, and a lot of other companies and absolutely nothing else) for eleven years.</p>
<p>For the last six years I've been living in Leiden, first in a Skinnerbox for four years and when I couldn't take that anymore I moved to a single room in an apartment I share with two others, in a flat. I'm trying to move to something larger now, but that proves extremely difficult. Leiden is the place I'm studying to become an astronomer. I think I'm finally getting the hang of it! Nevertheless, getting weird ideas is what I do best, so that's the reason why I'm flooding the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Known Galaxy with all sorts of articles. How sweet life would be if only I could make a living being a Field Researcher! &lt;dream&gt;</p>
<p>I'm also an expert on film cliches and I tend to annoy everyone who is watching a movie or television series in my vicinity by predicting what will happen next. This ability is the fruit of an extremely boring lifestyle.</p>
<p>Further, I'm addicted to sports, especially target shooting. As a target that is; I'm a five-a-side soccer goalkeeper in two teams, a team high in the student's league and an all-but-one ladies team in a company's all internal competition (always against male teams). Aikido with Ki is a martial art that I practice with a lot of pleasure. I also used to do some nice field hockeying and I may return to doing that somewhere in the future.</p>
<p>The articles I write are further influenced by the fact that I am a teetotaller (except for the occasional champagne). Something else interesting in the food department is that I have a rare allergy for nuts, especially walnuts and hazelnuts. People annoyingly tend to forget this, sometimes resulting in unexpected uncomfortable symptoms. I could have easily gotten a job as the Michelin man if I wanted, except I feel particularly lousy after eating the nuts, so I'm not sure whether I would be able to remember what to say and how to act when the cameras are on. Some friends call me 'weird', and I think that I can safely agree with them that I am.</p>
<p>One little question in between: if anyone has any idea's on what to do with life, I would love to hear your suggestions.</p>
<p>I have currently (for as long as I have internet access) taken upon me the task of Project Galactic Guide Field Researcher Recruiter. It mostly involves reading newsgroups such as alt.humor.best-of-usenet and finding mail there that can be converted to something we like in The Guide. On the other hand, I also try to motivate all my friends and everyone around me to write something, because if we want this guide to be really "useful" it should contain so much articles that for whichever index word you type, there will be an article. <strong>YOU</strong> can do the same.</p>
<p>Once in a while my alter ego Dan floods my mind with ideas for The Guide. He gave the founding ideas for the Ideabank (TM), the Project Galactic Guide Weekend, the Newsletter, and the Guaranteed Articles Group (GAG). Read all about these things in the articles about them. Dan also filled the Ideabank (TM) with loads of ideas to write Guide articles about.</p>
<p>Concluding this article, I can say that right now the Project Galactic Guide plays one heck of a major role in my life.</p>
</div>
