---
layout: "article"
title: "Paragliding"
subtitle: "More Amusing Than You Thought"
author: "Roel van der Meulen"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R73"
permalink: "articles/2R73"
pgg_date: "1995/08/191994/04/06"
article_date: "1995/08/19, 1994/04/06"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: "Miller, James (The Fan Man)"
alternative_title_3: "Paramotoring"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 2010-10-21 15:59"
see_also: ["2R68"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Cumulus: fluffy, cottonball clouds. These occur when a thermal takes a warm air mass up to the point where it's cold enough for the air to condense the water vapour."}
---
<div>
<p>A paraglider is a parachute with the shape of a mattress, which allows for excellent manouvring during flight. By using bubbles of hot air rising up, `thermals' (which also produce cumulus clouds <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>), it is possible to gain more than 3000 metres of altitude. By hopping from thermal to thermal paragliders have managed flights of around 200 km.</p>
<p>Paragliding is turned into paramotoring by adding a backpack propellor to the gear. To take off you first have to run like hell (into the wind) to get the parachute up and then you have to turn on your backpack propeller. The airspeed of the paraglider is set, not by the propellor, but by the airfoil and how much weight you dangle from it. In `no wind' you can stay in the air in excess of 5 hours and do 150 km or so on one tank of gas. Of course, paramotor pilots don't usually bother thermalling their machines.</p>
<p>Besides the (extra)ordinary joys of riding the winds and enjoying the scenery, there are also a number of joyful activities especially designed for a paraglider to do. These activities basically come down to landing in abnormal places.</p>
<p>If you've got a masochistic side in your character, you could decide to land in a boxing ring in Las Vegas to disturb a world title match, for instance between Holyfield and Bowe. In this case, besides having problems with landing on such a small spot, you will also have to deal with two bloodthirsty professional boxers and a mob ready to lynch you.</p>
<p>You could try to disturb, some people might say grace, a football match for instance between the Los Angeles Raiders and the Denver Broncos. This option seems to be very difficult and the stadium is easy to miss.</p>
<p>You could also want to land your paraglider on top of Buckingham Palace, take of all your clothes, run around naked with a green-painted bottom, and hurl abuse to armed policemen trying to arrest you.</p>
<p>Before deciding to undertake these activities you must also take in to consideration that it is very likely that you will later be fined considerable amounts of money because unfortunately these activities are illegal in most countries (unsafe flying is, anyway).</p>
<p>One man has nevertheless performed - by high coincidence - exactly these actions. For such bravery I would like to give "the fan man" "birdman" James "Windy" Miller from Henderson, Nevada the title of "Hitchhiker Extraordinaire." May he live long and prosper.</p>
<p>However, if anyone were to do all these things for the wrong reasons, like to only get a lot of media exposure, that would not reflect the spirit of the true hitchhiker. The important thing is not to impress others but to have fun yourself. People who do the former I'd rather like to give the title "Jerk Extraordinaire." Be warned.</p>
</div>
