---
layout: "article"
title: "Ireland, Earth"
subtitle: "A Really Green And Friendly Place"
author: "Stephen Casey"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "2R88"
permalink: "articles/2R88"
pgg_date: "1994/06/06"
article_date: "1994/06/06"
alternative_title_1: "Pubs, Ireland"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1994-06-06 00:00"
see_also: ["1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<pre>
Location:     Across a lot of water from the USA.
</pre>
<pre>
Inhabitants:  Some indigenous life, but mostly Germanic and American
              tourists.  All carbon-based life forms.
</pre>
<p>Technology: N/A</p>
<p>Ireland (known as Eire by everyone but the Irish) is a small island on the eastern side of the Atlantic Ocean. It has a population of roughly 3.2 million, and by an extraordinary co-incidence, a land mass of 32 thousand square miles. Further extending the disbelief, it is divided up into 32 counties.</p>
<p>For historical reasons, it has been segregated into 2 sections, in the wholly unfair ratio of Northern Ireland (6 counties), and Southern, or the Republic, of Ireland (26 counties). This has caused a lot of bad will, and even more "my grass is greener than yours" conversation than normal.</p>
<p>As opposed to the information on the Earth, Irish people have no aversions to leaving, to find other abode. This has however caused the situation where the external population of Ireland seems to go into the hundreds of millions, as opposed to the previously stated internal population. This however does make for big St. Patrick's day celebrations (on the 17th March Earthtime).</p>
<p>Ireland still attempts to keep in the dark ages through continuation of male dominance. This has however had a set back in the form of a female president (Mary Robinson). Countermeasures have been put in place that ensure that she can not, however, do anything. This includes diplomatic meetings, peace missions, visits, crossing the street, etc.</p>
<p>In Ireland, religion is a bit more important than politics. This however could be argued, as some people would say they are both the same thing. The dominant religion is Catholicism, and the Catholic hierarchy insist on telling people that 90 percent of them go to mass. They however, fail to ask anyone that does not go to mass, if they go to mass or not. This could be compared to asking all the people in the world that are called Bob, what their name is, and hence proving that everyone was called Bob.</p>
<p>Alcohol in Ireland is a way of life. In the varied history of the country, we even went through a phase of giving babies Guinness to encourage strength and well-being. We now however have noticed that it works better as a liver dissolver than anything else. This aside, Ireland is famous for its pubs. Anyone that looks in the least bit alive will be dragged into a friendly conversation with at least one surrounding table of people. The only way to prevent this is to become drunker than them, and hence not care what happens.</p>
<p>Good places to do this in the capital, Dublin, include:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">ZOO club, off Nassau street. Really nice drinks, at a very reasonable price (during happy hour which lasts from 6 until 9 every day). Its only flaw is that some people treat it like a creche for kids, and it tends to fill up with very drunk 15 year olds.</li>
<li value="2">The Baggot Inn, Baggot Street. Very friendly, very Irish pub. Serves a very nice pint of Guinness. There tends to be music playing at certain times during the day/night. This has ranged from the Henry Rollins Band to Tin Machine.</li>
<li value="3">USI Club. Only of interest to people that possess a ISIC student card, or possess at least one friend that does. During the day, it serves a very nice Guinness, but not at night due to the rush. Only really of interest to students.</li>
</ol>
<p>In general, any pub you happen to walk into will be friendly, so long as it is not called the Harp. The latter is a tourist trap, and a place to send people if they wish to end it all quickly.</p>
<p>Finally, although just about everyone will try to rip you off in some manner, they will do it in a very sporting manner, and generally be quite nice about it. They will then go on to complain about the weather to you. If you don't want this to happen, don't have a tan. The Irish resent that sort of attack on their sensibilities.</p>
</div>
