---
layout: "article"
title: "Homeopathy"
subtitle: "Probably The Best Solution To Diseases (For The Hitchhiker, That Is)"
author: "Roel van der Meulen"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "2S27"
permalink: "articles/2S27"
pgg_date: "1994/05/06"
article_date: "1994/05/06"
alternative_title_1: "Do-It-Yourself Medicine"
alternative_title_2: "DIY Medicine"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1994-05-06 00:00"
see_also: ["2R29"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Old woman with little yelping dogs comes in; \"Oh doktor, I have a terrible headache and my whole right side feels a bit numb and I think I have hemorrhoids!\" \"Please take a seat Mrs. Twaddle and let's start at the beginning. Do you have any recollections of your earliest childhood?\"...."}
---
<div>
<p>Illness of any kind has always been expensive, at least if you want to remain among the living. And that's mostly what we want, basically because there is nothing else to look forward to, except maybe "eternal rest," which can be a pretty neat idea if you suffer from a continuous overdose of wedlock and/or parents-in-law.</p>
<p>One method of getting cured is homeopathy. At the regular homeopathic- method physicians you pay quite a lot for say two small grains of mucus or three drops of some obscure liquid. Homeopathy is rather expensive. Luckily the theoretical research of Professor Placebo has found a way to drastically cut the costs of this healing method down to an approximate amount of zero dollars, thus making homeopathy the cheapest healing method currently existing. And thus perfectly fit for hitchhikers.</p>
<p>Homeopathy is the treatment based on the principle that diseases must be cured by small amounts of medicine which in larger amounts would cause the same symptoms as the disease itself. Different degrees of thinning have different results, quantitatively as well as qualitatively. The thinning has to be done with the utmost care and a lot of stirring. Up until now thinning has been used to a degree of D30 (ten to the thirtieth times). Homeopathy has in recent years become more and more popular due to the large amount of personal attention the doctor gives to the complaints of his patients <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>Among homeopaths there is a theory that a medicine remains effective even if there has been so much thinning that it is hardly possible for a single molecule of the original medicine to be in the solution. This is because water is supposed to have a memory for what has been in it. It is this theory that is at the basis of Professor Placebo's theoretical research.</p>
<p>Professor Placebo has, through the argument that every medicine made by man and every medicine not yet discovered has at one time or other been in contact with water, combined with the homeopathic theory of infinitely thinning, come to the theory that every drop of water on Earth is, in fact, a medicine.</p>
<p>To be certain that at least every homeopathic medicine is dissolved into the great water reservoir of the Earth, Professor Placebo has taken all his specimens and has thrown them down the drain. The natural whirling of water in drains and the process of diffusion will supply the necessary mixing process.</p>
<p>The personal attention of course is lacking, so you have to provide it yourself or get a fellow hitchhiker to help you. You can then tell your life's story and how you feel. You or your fellow hitchhiker should nod yes and no, and after you've finished your story pitifully say "Shush, shush" and "Here, have a glass of water."</p>
<p>Tip: If you're out of tea, try making some homeopathic tea. There's still enough tea clinging to the teapot to make, homeopathically speaking, quite a heavy dose.</p>
<p>Paul Farrar (<a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130117012813/mailto:farrar@128.160.21.215">farrar@128.160.21.215</a>) wrote:<br>
I once tried to read a book on homeopathy, but I couldn't make much of it. It was about 3 cm thick and all the pages were blank, except that there was a letter "e" on a page about 1/3 of the way through.</p>
<pre>
NOTE:  According to the mentioned theory, Earth's water should also contain
       the memory of every pint of urine that as centuries passed has been
       excreted by man.  Man, of course includes Jesus, Son of God.  We see
       here that this other healing method from way back of drinking piss
       wasn't so crazy after all!!
</pre>
</div>
