---
layout: "article"
title: "Bordesium"
subtitle: "Bordesium Is One Of The Slowest Measurements Of Time"
author: "Dave Shockey Jr."
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "2S32"
permalink: "articles/2S32"
pgg_date: "1994/04/21"
article_date: "1994/04/21"
alternative_title_1: "Time Scales"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1994-04-21 00:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Bordesium is the favorite time scale for a large, but very slow, part of the Universe. Its origins are from a small blue-green planet which is the third planet from its sun. Of course its not Earth; the existence of Bordesium has only recently reached Earth. Its like the joke goes: "Who are the only creatures that believe they are alone in the universe? The Sniggle-Eaters." (You could insert Earthlings into the punch-line and it would be almost as funny.)</p>
<p>For comparison, 1 Bordesium is equal to about 32,452.69422345 Earth years. Bordesium originated on the planet Hall, the third planet from their sun, Study (commonly known as Study Hall.) They are led by their King, the great Monitor of Study Hall and they worship their god, Dull. They pray to Dull using a type of prayer called a Stare. They can worship Dull with the Stare at any time and usually do. They do this to honor the great Blank Stare that Dull is always doing.</p>
<p>The Hallions hold an extravagant festival, The Festival of the Blank Stare every 100 Bordesiums. This is supposedly the time when Dull will shift his attention to something else. It is a great time on the planet and fills everyone with great excitement -- almost enough excitement to actually attend the festival. I could go on about the festival for Bordesiums, but it's an event you really have to attend to get the full effect.</p>
<p>A small sect of people on Earth have started using the Bordesium for a section of time. This sect of people are commonly known as "couch potatoes." They are using the Bordesium because they say it helps them get through the summer re-run period.</p>
<p>Although using this scale of time might not work for everyone, I've found that it can be very useful when at work. For example, the other day I only had to work 0.00002 bordesiums. Hardly any time at all to Dull. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

