---
layout: "article"
title: "Sun, The"
subtitle: "The Solar System Ultra-Party"
author: "Roel van der Meulen"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "2S48"
permalink: "articles/2S48"
pgg_date: "1994/07/17"
article_date: "1994/07/17"
alternative_title_1: "Sol"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sun, 1994-07-17 00:00"
see_also: ["1R1", "2S49", "2S47", "2S39", "2S50"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>The Sun is the star in the centre of our solar system. It is of spectral type G2V and has several bodies orbiting it. Those are, in order: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Pluto, and Humphrey. There are also a lot of asteroids and comets cruising the solar system. The largest numbers can be found in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter, and in the Oort cloud, even further away than Humphrey (almost halfway to the nearest star!).</p>
<p>To visit the sun you have to be absolutely mega-cool 'cause there are some <strong>hot</strong> parties going on there. So far no Earthling has gone to, or put more accurately, arrived at the party, sadly indicating we have a long way to go before we are the coolest froods in the solar system . Word goes around that once you're there, it's such an ultra-party that it's hard to leave. All the ancient civilizations who used to live all over the solar system (for example the ancient Earthlings, the ancient Asteroid Beltians, the ancient Martians, the ancient Humphreyians, and the ancient Titans) are at the very moment still partying on, much to their amusement.</p>
<p>Occasionally the Sun gives us Earth weenies the finger. She doesn't, however, offend us with that. In fact we are quite amused because it gives us the most wonderful light shows, ranging from the polar caps to smaller latitudes.</p>
<p>Actually, very few Earthlings know about the solar system ultra-party. Observations of the Sun haven't so far revealed any proof of the party being there, or we just don't recognize the signs. The few people on Earth who do know about it have stuck their heads together and convinced the industry to send a space probe to the solar caps. The theory now goes that most of the party goes on at those spots, because all beings are too drunk to ride on the equator. Evidence of this is found on some spots on the surface. Science calls them "sun spots" but they are actually huge "puke spots." The scientific probe Ulysses has at this moment, after first using Jupiter as a sling, reached the south pole of the Sun and indeed encountered a rise in the amount of solar confetti. Insiders are said to have celebrated it with a small party (with respect to that on the Sun), and immediately started a lobby for a manned space mission to the solar poles. I will continue to inform you on this.</p>
</div>
