---
layout: "article"
title: "Haagen Dazs Day"
subtitle: "A Wild Celebration For The Sake Of Celebrating"
author: "Don Edward Goodman, Jr."
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "2S54"
permalink: "articles/2S54"
pgg_date: "1994/07/20"
article_date: "1994/07/20"
alternative_title_1: "Celebrations, Haagen Dazs"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1994-07-20 00:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Haagen Dazs Day: the one opportunity of the year that lets one celebrate absolutely anything for absolutely no reason. Occurring concurrently with the Ides of January (15 January), it has a deep and rich history involving the fate of nations, historic battles, and an unsuspecting Waffle House.</p>
<h3>History</h3>
<p>Haagen Dazs Day is actually a celebration of Marvin the Musty Munchkin and his defeat of the German Moondoggie Riders using only a Stick each of Salami and Swiss Cheese of the type without those little holes in it, circa 18-something-or-other AD, in Northern France and Germany, Earth, which he was able to foresee using the Magical Hot-Dog-O-Power and his Shoelace of Wisdom.</p>
<p>The decision to make a holiday of this joyous event came about around March of 1993, during a lull in the lecture of a class in World (Earth) History class at Columbus High School, Columbus, Mississippi, United States, Earth. The first celebration, nearly a year later, was a monumental undertaking, involving a large population of the Mississippi School for Math and Science, also in Columbus, Mississippi, United States, Earth.</p>
<p>The fact the Mississippi School for Math and Science is a boarding school made for some interesting opportunities for the first Haagen Dazs Day. It was marked, in an unforeseen precedent, by an entire week of preparatory partying, most of which involved large quantities of sugar and mindless silliness. On the 15th, then, a large group of students march on foot to the nearest Waffle House, nearly a mile and a half away from the school campus, wearing brightly colored togas, and chanting in a Southern dialect, where a great time and much sugar was had by all.</p>
<h3>Traditions</h3>
<p>It is customary for the Head Honcho to find and consecrate a salami to represent the Sacred Salami Stick. In addition, the Head Honcho must also keep the Magical Hot-Dog-O-Power, and the Shoelace of Wisdom, which must be at aged at least 3 years. On Haagen Dazs Eve, or 'Da've for short, the ceremonies are held for the consecration of the Sacred Salami Stick, Magical Hot-Dog-O-Power, and the Shoelace of Wisdom, usually by Whapping each member of the congregation participating in the next days many Parties and Opportunities To Make a Fool of Ones Self with the frozen forms of said items. Hard Whaps.</p>
<p>After much delirious and meaningless Chanting, in whatever language is available (preferably something foreign or even better, classical) everyone goes about their business. The main point of all the ceremony attached to Haagen Dazs Day is really to publicly humiliate not only those present for the ceremony, but also those innocent bystanders wondering why there is a bonfire in the middle of the street. The next day is strictly for partying; the preferred location for such parties is the ever-famous Waffle House. However, if none are to be found in ones locale, then whatever is there will do nicely. All travel is done on foot while wearing togas, or anything socially frightening like polyester leisure suits or swimming suits (it /is/ January, yes?). Also, <em>Monty Python and the Holy Grail</em> must be shown at least once that day, and when not chanting, one should speak in either a British or Southern (US) accent.</p>
<h3>Consumables</h3>
<p>As to food and drink, alcohol is not the norm. Sugar, is however, consumed in vast quantities, and often, there are contests to see who can turn their coffee into syrup first, by only adding sugar. After that, another contest will usually follow, to see who can drink the resulting coffee (syrup) without passing out. Honestly. It is entirely possible for three to four people to use and consume over a pound of sugar.</p>
<p>Also, as this usually takes place in a Waffle House, many (many) waffles are eaten as well. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD THE SACRED SALAMI STICK, THE MAGICAL HOT DOG-O-POWER, OR THE SHOELACE OF WISDOM EVER BE<br>
EATEN!! They are to be kept for next year, wherever is convenient; the Shoelace of Wisdom may continue its previous career on ones shoe, however.</p>
<p>Questions, comments, lewd remarks, ideas, and such should be sent to</p>
<blockquote>
<a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20130117013207/mailto:dgoodman@sparc.msms.doe.k12.ms">dgoodman@sparc.msms.doe.k12.ms</a>.us</blockquote>
<p>All flames will be redirected to /dev/null.<br>
Have fun! <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

