---
layout: "article"
title: "May The Forces Be With You"
subtitle: "The Four Forces Of The Universe"
author: "Joseph Johaneman"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "2S72"
permalink: "articles/2S72"
pgg_date: "1995/03/06"
article_date: "1995/03/06"
alternative_title_1: "Forces: Strong, Weak, Electromagnetic, Gravity"
alternative_title_2: "Gluons"
alternative_title_3: "Unified Field Theory"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1995-03-06 01:00"
see_also: ["2R21"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Though you may not know it, there are four forces in the Universe governing all interactions. They are the Strong Force, the Weak Force, the Electromagnetic Force, and Gravity. Each of these forces is governed by a particle (or sometimes particles) called a Gluon. No, it is not made of glue.</p>
<p>Gravity is an attracting force between two bodies that have mass:</p>
<blockquote>M * G = W</blockquote>
<p>where M is the Mass, G is the Gravitational constant of whatever world you're on, and W is the Weight. So, the best weight loss plan is to go to a planet where G is smaller than 1. Gravity is governed by a gluon called the graviton. This particle has never been discovered, but it must exist because I said so.</p>
<p>The Electromagnetic force is the force that creates light, magnetism, and electricity. The gluon for the Electromagnetic force is the photon. The electromagnetic force can self-propagate through a vacuum. This is because a magnetic field generates an electric field, and an electric field generates a magnetic field, so the fields fluctuate through the vacuum. Photons move at c, the speed of light, which is 180,000 miles/second, or 300,000 KM/s, or 1.8 tera furlongs/fortnight, or 138.31 peta Roel/Roel, or... well, I think you get the idea.</p>
<p>The Strong Force is what holds the nucleus of an atom together. The strong force is the energy released in a nuclear explosion. It is governed by several gluons, most notably the Z Boson.</p>
<p>The Weak Force is what causes nuclear decay. It is governed by the W particle. (W standing for Weak. What'd you think it stood for... Wieners?)</p>
<p>Some scientists on Earth speculate there is a fifth force that counteracts gravity. They call it antigravity.</p>
<p>It is interesting to note that scientists on Quelas III also believe in the existence of fifth force. It is called the U-Force, or unhealthy force. It is the force that drives sentient species to eat white bread even though Wheat and Rye taste better and have nutritional value. It is governed by the Grain gluon.</p>
<p>Earth scientists also speculate that all the forces of the universe are manifestations of a single force that split up during the big bang. Those scientists claim that a grand equation called a unified field theory, will allow them to calculate the results of interactions with any force. They have succeeded in part, though gravity still refuses to join at this time. He refers all questions to his agent.</p>
</div>
