---
layout: "article"
title: "Legendary Tree People Of Brent, The (TM)"
subtitle: "Brent, And Its Indigenous Life"
author: "Alexander Lachlan McLintock"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "2U24"
permalink: "articles/2U24"
pgg_date: "1993/06/07"
article_date: "1993/06/07"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1993-06-07 00:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>There is some debate as to whether there is any indigenous animal life on the planet Brent. Almost the entire biomass is made up of vegetable species. The most important of these is Legendary Tree People of Brent (TM). This race of super-intelligent trees learnt to speak some 2.5 million standard years ago. It is alleged that the first sentence ever spoken by a Brent was "Where am I?". This took some two centuries from the "W" to the "?". Unfortunately no one had yet had a chance to learn the language and the first articulate Brent died from nervous insecurity.</p>
<p>However, progress was rapid and it is now possible to hold a conversation with a Brent if accompanied by a Translator. Translators are members of a local type of ambulatory fern which are commonly employed for their linguistic expertise. It was they who introduced the tourist industry to the planet of Brent. Their advertising agency, Snaatchi and Snaatchi, thought up the phrase "Legendary Tree People of Brent" (TM) and trademarked it in twelve major star systems.</p>
<p>The Legendary Tree People of Brent (TM) have a religion based on the all-powerful warrior god (or "dei-tree") called "Green-the-Big-Skwiril-Home." Brent religious texts tell of the tale of Green-the-Big-Skwiril-Home's fight against the "small-quick-things-which-went-buzzzz-and-cut-the-tree-people- down." The tales ended with Green-the-Big-Skwiril-Home being beaten and killed: a common occurrence among omnipotent beings. He was later used for making tables, chairs, and other house furniture.</p>
<p>Contraband items on the planet of Brent include: wooden spoons, wooden matches, paper books, and McDog's polystyrene burger cartons (famous the galaxy over for their polystyrene food).</p>
<p>It is customary to offer manure as a present to Legendary Tree People of Brent (TM).</p>
<p>It is not socially acceptable to call mating Brents "lover-trees" and then use toilet humour.</p>
<p>One of the major exports of Brent is the Legendary Tree People of Brent (TM) themselves. They are uprooted and replanted to guard military installations. They hold the rank of "sen-tree."</p>
<p>There is a sect of dendricidal psychopathic Brents who follow the way of "carpen-tree."</p>
<p>Although the Legendary Tree People of Brent (TM) are extremely wise, their conversation is somewhat limited by their area of influence. For that reason it is not recommended to ask a Brent where the best local dance club is. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

