---
layout: "article"
title: "CASIP And AAAAAAA"
subtitle: "Groups To Avoid"
author: "Alexander Lachlan McLintock"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "2U73"
permalink: "articles/2U73"
pgg_date: "1994/08/19"
article_date: "1994/08/19"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1994-08-19 00:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<pre>
CASIP - The Campaign Against Snogging In Public spends much of its time
hanging around the underground train system in London and several other
major capitals.  When they come across amorous couples engaged in kissing
(a homosapien prelude to intercourse) they comment on this to each other
with the intention of embarrassing the young people.  Typical comments
include:
          "Don't tongues feel like slugs?"
          "Let's suck face!"
          and general slurping noises.
</pre>
<p>It has been known for CASIP members to hold up numbered cards in the fashion of Olympic gymnastics judges.</p>
<p>The moral rationale behind this is that most people in a train carriage would also like to be kissing their loved ones - or other people on the train - or even <em>have</em> loved ones - but they cannot due to public decency. CASIP aims to deliver them from this unwarranted temptation. ("Out of sight, out of mind.")</p>
<p>CASIP is rumoured to have been started by a lonely Imperial College student who couldn't get laid and would get really pissed off when he would go to the bar and see scores of nubile young female students cavorting with students other than himself. Of course we cannot guarantee the accuracy of such rumours which may have been made up as a slur against the college. (After all it sounds reasonable except for the bit about "scores of females.")</p>
<p>AAAAAAA - The All American Association Against Acronym Abuse Anonymous. 'nuff said. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

