---
layout: "article"
title: "Diddley-Squat"
subtitle: "As Near As Close To Next To Nothing As If To Be Naught"
author: "Alexander E Cutshall"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "2U83"
permalink: "articles/2U83"
pgg_date: "1995/03/02"
article_date: "1995/03/02"
alternative_title_1: "Nada"
alternative_title_2: "Zip"
alternative_title_3: "Very Little"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1995-03-02 01:00"
see_also: ["2U5", "2U19"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>The concept of an amount of items that are close to absolute zero, but a bit more friendlier was contemplated by the people of Earth. They said, "how can we indicate a amount like zero, but in a friendlier way."</p>
<p>Two professors came up with an idea. "What if we create an equation that is as close to next to nothing as to be zero, give it a term, and then that can be a an amount that's like zero, but more friendlier?" So they came up with the equation:</p>
<pre>
               1
          D = ---
               C
</pre>
<p>Where C is the amount of Cheese Dip consumed per capita, and D is the Diddley-Squat, named after the two professors, John Diddley and Fred Squat. The Institute for Extreme Cleverness gave them the greatly prized Award For Use of a Non-Constant Number in a Seemingly Useless Equation. Then they realized that the actual number of people eating Cheese Dip wasn't as big of a number as they originally thought.</p>
<p>The Award for Use of a Non-Constant Number is a Seemingly Useless Equation was revoked, not that that was such a bad thing. So Diddley and Squat were never really famous yet, and their careers as scientists were as near as to next to nothing as to almost be nonexistent.</p>
<p>Their trophy was used as a punch bowl for this really horrible party the members of the Board of People Who Choose Who Gets the Award For Use of a Non-Constant Number in a Seemingly Useless Equation, and the party was so boring that one of the members spiked the punch... onto the head of the Director for Awarding the Award For Use of a Non-Constant Number in a Seemingly Useless Equation and he was not pleased at all, and threw out the window the Award For Use of a Non-Constant Number in a Seemingly Useless Equation, and it shattered into a billion trillion little glass pieces. They said, "wow, that's Diddley-Squat." And there they were, looking weepingly at the little glass pieces on the sidewalk outside. So ended the careers of Diddley and Squat, and they gained a reputation of having both the luck of and the careers which amounted to as close to next to nothing as to be almost absolute zero, so that's what they are remembered for.</p>
</div>
