---
layout: "article"
title: "Washing Hands After Bathroom"
subtitle: "Reasons Why You Should Wash Your Hands"
author: "John B. Kim"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R1"
permalink: "articles/6R1"
pgg_date: "1994/08/11"
article_date: "1994/08/11"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1994-08-11 00:00"
see_also: ["2R26"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>I recently posted an article (in sci.med, etc) asking for reasons why one should wash his hands after using the bathroom, since I see that the majority of men don't. I do, really!</p>
<p>Some interesting things (if not obvious to some) were learned:</p>
<p>Worsh (if you're from the midwest) your hands!!! Because your anus has lots of really groovy germs that spread out to and party in your entire genital area.</p>
<p>Plus your urine isn't sterile after it leaves your bladder, and even some virii are found in it. And even if it was sterile, would you like to have it on your salad? Peeing on your salad is no different than touching your salad with hands that were peed on.</p>
<p>If you're anal (hee!) you should grab a towel without touching the fawcett, dry your hands, THEN turn off the fawcett with the towel so as to minimize the chance of catching the germs from the faucet, and then use the same towel to open the door to get out.</p>
<p>But then maybe a little germ isn't all that bad since it helps you develop some immunity.</p>
<p>Now, given all of this, I'm totally grossed out by the number of men I see in public bathrooms who don't wash their hands, some even after defecating. I would guesstimate the percentage of men who don't wash their hands to be around 75%. Furthermore, some who do wash their hands often simply run their hands under running water for a split second, no soap (they're usually the ones who pull out like three sheets of paper towel too, when one is sufficient).</p>
<p>I'm surprised that foot-pedal operated faucets or automatic fawcetts are not more common, not to mention no-touch doors/entries.</p>
<p>Don't be offended if I don't shake your hand next time....</p>
</div>
