---
layout: "article"
title: "Telepath, Encountering A"
subtitle: "What To Do When You Think Someone Is Reading Your Mind"
author: "Roel van der Meulen"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R105"
permalink: "articles/6R105"
pgg_date: "1998/11/25"
article_date: "1998/11/25"
alternative_title_1: "Encountering Someone Telepathic"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1998-11-25 01:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {"[1]":"You pervert! (WACK!)","[2]":"Although these random thoughts are not always a reason for a slap in the face."}
---
<div>
<p>Do you recognize this situation? You are somewhere where there are several people you don't know, and you have nothing special to do, e.g. on a bus trip. Your mind is unfocussed and generating thoughts about all kinds of things, including comments on the people around you. Suddenly one of them, who you were just thinking about, turns around with a discomforting, <em>knowing</em> look on his or her face. "Oh my god," you think, "he/she has just read my mind!!! What to do now?!?"</p>
<p>Well, as you don't know for sure that they have <em>really</em> read your mind, and because the existence of telepathy has never been scientifically proven and can thus be considered remote, you don't really have to do anything. That is, unless of course your facial expression gave you away <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>But just in case the scientific community has been wrong all along, which is a thought you tend to give more credibility when you find yourself in the situation sketched above, you had better apologize fast (mentally) <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>. You don't really have to do much else though, because if they <em>would</em> react to your thoughts, their carefully kept secret would be revealed. They would most probably become laboratory rats, or the focus of the world's meanest intelligence agencies, or, in the most positive case, bait for the popular press from here to Timbuktu.</p>
<p>So don't worry too much about telepaths in your everyday life.</p>
</div>
