---
layout: "article"
title: "Inspiration, Lack Of"
subtitle: "How To Write An Article About Not Having Inspiration To Write Articles"
author: "Rickard Andersson"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R34"
permalink: "articles/6R34"
pgg_date: "1995/05/12"
article_date: "1995/05/12"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1995-05-12 00:00"
see_also: ["2R96", "2U53", "2R31", "2R167", "2R83", "2S43", "2R177"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>This article explains how you deal with the lack of inspiration that can occur when you, being a notorious Field Researcher, are trying to write articles for the Project Galactic Guide (PGG). You, of course, are cursed with a deadline hanging above your head and you feel an obligation to the Guaranteed Articles Group (GAG) and the rest of the PGG people around the universe. Your inspiration is nil and the article theme you must write about feels almost as funny as the number 42. So you decide to rationalise the workload by trying to write a short as possible story to ease the pain of having to think about witty things to tell the world about something you don't want to write about. There is a great art in the concept of composing an article that people didn't even know they were going to read. One can put it more elegant, the art form of filling an article with the help of creative writing, is immensely underestimated. To start off writing without inspiration for the issue you should tell the world about, is a fantastic gift performed by your brain, as it composes sentences and with some co-processes thinks about food, drinks as other basic elements of life. Then, suddenly as you are typing along, you realise that you have written a quite acceptable article, so you can stop the writing and go to bed (or some nice party). So there you have it, the simple explanation on how to cope with the lack of inspiration. Just ignore the boring part of following a subject and wander of into the mist of loosely tied lines of babbling nonsense.</p>
</div>
