---
layout: "article"
title: "Relaxation"
subtitle: "When the Going Gets Tough"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R61"
permalink: "articles/6R61"
pgg_date: "1996/06/24"
article_date: "1996/06/24"
alternative_title_1: "Taking A Break"
alternative_title_2: "Timeout"
alternative_title_3: "Stress Relief"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1996-06-24 00:00"
see_also: ["2S12", "8R26", "2R24", "6R64"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Commonly known as \"death\".","[2]":"This is not the only action that may be taken. If you are lucky, you will be sat behind a desk and paid an incredibly large salary."}
---
<div>
<p>Sometimes it is necessary, and much easier, to take time out from life to sit back and take in some air away from your task, and relax. It is for this reason that relaxation is so popular with many people, and possibly why many people prefer this to the actual work.</p>
<p>Relaxation on its own is said to be as good as sleep, and is indeed an important part of sleep, it being very difficult to sleep if you are not relaxed. At the very least, relaxation is said to do a great deal for you if you are unable or unwilling to attain the required level of consciousness required for actual slumber.</p>
<p>People who don't relax enough are likely to suffer, or be suffering, from stress, which is said to shorten the ultimate lifespan, as it may cause heart attacks or any number of other problems. Though many of the problems are more associated with older people, some are known to have been so stressed in early life that they have experienced these as early as their 20s.</p>
<p>Relaxation, as with most things, can also be taken to extreme, and it is sometimes the case that too little will get done, because the people involved in its continuation will have spent too long relaxing rather than working. Indeed, many jobs that are estimated to take a certain time, will take a significantly longer time because of the cumulative effect of the relaxation periods set aside (and taken) by the relevant parties.</p>
<p>Frequent relaxation brings the heightened possibility of a mistaken diagnosis of post-mortality <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>, and can lead to a premature instatement in a six-foot-deep hole in the ground <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>. It is therefore necessary to make sure that, if you are relaxing, you have a fully-working and detectable pulse rate at all times.</p>
</div>
