---
layout: "article"
title: "Happy Family Hostel II, Taipei, Taiwan"
subtitle: "Cheap And Friendly"
author: "Mark Grant"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "6R69"
permalink: "articles/6R69"
pgg_date: "1996/02/16"
article_date: "1996/02/16"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Fri, 1996-02-16 01:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>The hostel is quite well-placed in Taipei, near to the Railway Station. It's quite clean and provides mainly dorm rooms but if few people are staying you can have a four-bed room to yourself for about NT$400 (about $15) per night. Long-term discounts may also be possible. Facilities include TV and video, shared kitchen, a shared bathroom with slightly dodgy hot water and a washing machine on the upper floor. The rooms have fans for use in hot weather. The owner is very friendly, speaks good English and can help out with travel information (e.g. where to get buses to wherever you're going). Should you wish to stay in Taipei for a while, there is also a notice board with ads for jobs as English teachers.</p>
<p>The telephone number is (02)-581-0716, and you should call before turning up in case it's full. If it is then the owner has three other hostels around Taipei (called, oddly enough, Happy Family Hostel I, III and IV). This one is located at 2/3FL, No.2, Lane 56, Section 1, Chung Shan N. Rd, Taipei. To find it get off the bus at the railway station then look for No 58 on Chung Shan North Rd (or to approximate the Chinese pronunciation, "jungshan bay loo"). If you pass a Circle-K on Chung Shan N Road while looking for the hostel you're about eighty yards too far to the north. If you pass under a large MRT overpass, then you're a similar distance too far to the south.</p>
<p>Turn down the alley directly before No 58, then take the first right. You should see the "HF" sign on the door of the second building on that alleyway, and the hostel main entrance is on the second floor. If that's locked then try the third floor instead. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

