---
layout: "article"
title: "Marriage, How To Ruin A"
subtitle: "By Xang Woopy 101010"
author: "Gregory C. Wait"
factuality: "SemiReal"
pgg_id: "6S6"
permalink: "articles/6S6"
pgg_date: "1995/06/20"
article_date: "1995/06/20"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1995-06-20 00:00"
see_also: []
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Marriage is an institution common to many of the multisex species of the Galaxy. While theories as to the purpose of marriage are plentiful, the most popular to date is attributed to Dar Beton, of Oonoogle III, and goes something like this:</p>
<pre>
  Wealth is finite.  Anything quantifiable must by definition be finite,
  and if wealth isn't quantifiable why does everyone want so much of it?
  Since wealth is finite, it eventually ends up laying about in the
  pockets of those individuals who prove the best at acquiring it (usually
  politicians, or "thieves" as they are sometimes called.)  A finite
  amount of wealth sitting around doing nothing does no one good, and
  logically must be redistributed to those most likely to get it out
  into the Galactic Market where it can at least get some fresh air.
</pre>
<pre>
  "What's all this got to do with marriage?" you say.  Well, marriage is
  the input cycle of the most efficient wealth redistribution system
  since Social Security (see Earth History, Mistakes of) having the effect
  of splitting any accumulated wealth into roughly equal halves (or thirds,
  sevenths, or harmonic ninths, depending on the planet) every few years or
  so.
</pre>
<pre>
  The redistribution, or output cycle of the system is called divorce, and
  has the one, unfortunate side effect of increasing the number of lawyers
  within a given culture.  On Earth, various attempts at lawyer
  redistribution always have the effect of relocating half the lawyers in a
  given region to Los Angeles.  This effect is not understood, and deserves
  further study.
</pre>
<pre>
  It is also important to note that while the Earth itself is "Mostly
  Harmless," Earth lawyers are not, and should be avoided.
</pre>
<p>So, if Dar Beton's theory is in fact true, divorce is not the end result of a marriage that "didn't work out," but is in fact the ultimately desired result of a completely successful marriage. Rare cases of lasting, happy marriages have been documented, but these are generally attributed to folks who either just aren't trying, or just don't know how to ruin a marriage.</p>
<p>Not knowing how to ruin a marriage is something akin to not knowing how to knock over a house of cards. All the elements are there, the laws of physics are steadfastly on your side, but somehow the damn thing stays together. It is for this reason that the following instructions may seem painfully obvious to those of you who are `with the program.' If you already know how to ruin a marriage, go look up something else.</p>
<p>How to ruin your marriage:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Fall madly in love with the wrong sort of person. This includes but is not limited to: someone just like yourself, someone totally different from you, someone who reminds you of your mother/father/gene-donor, a congressman, Elizabeth Taylor, or any lawyer.</li>
<li value="2">Spend lots of time together.</li>
<li value="3">Tell everyone you know (and anyone else who will listen) how `perfect' and `wonderful' your relationship is. Be sure to include the words, "We never fight."</li>
<li value="4">Fight, a lot. While this step seems rather obvious, you wouldn't be reading this if you could figure this stuff out for yourself.</li>
<li value="5">Have an affair. This step is not completely necessary to ruin your marriage, but it can be helpful, and can also have the added benefit of leading to another, more successfully unhappy marriage for the unfaithful party.</li>
<li value="6">Blame. It is important to blame someone, anyone, and/or everyone once it has become apparent that your efforts are beginning to bear fruit.<br>
Blaming yourself is acceptable, so long as you are not attempting to take CREDIT for the terrible mess your marriage has become. Blame has nothing to do with the actual credit for the relationship's demise, because while you may be thinking you've thus far done a real hoopy job of it, it is important to remember that the other party (or parties) may have been working equally hard toward making your marriage a divorce to be proud of.</li>
</ol>
<p>These steps are suggested as a rough framework. Feel free to experiment and find your own, unique style. Remember - there may be only one way to skin a cat, but the ways to ruin a marriage are as infinite as the Galaxy itself. So, get out there and make each other miserable, and the Universe will reap the rewards of your unions again and again. <!--Amazon_CLS_IM_END--></p>
</div>

