---
layout: "article"
title: "Foot Reflexology"
subtitle: "A Map Of The Body"
author: "Roel van der Meulen"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "6U18"
permalink: "articles/6U18"
pgg_date: "1999/07/051999/06/25"
article_date: "1999/07/05, 1999/06/25"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: "Reflexology, Foot"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 2010-10-21 16:00"
see_also: ["6U8"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Foot reflexology is the theory that at the feet all organs and glads are represented. This is especially true of the bladder. Events on the foot (e.g. a massage) can have healing effects on other parts of the body. While the effect of cold bathroom tiles is well known, it is unclear what part of the body blisters and corns affect. The most likely hypothesis states that it is the mouth, as it tends to deform and emit sounds like "ouch" when these injuries are pressed.</p>
<p>Strangely enough, the feet are not represented in the feet. Therefore, injuries on the foot are best treated by sticking needles in, or massaging, the rest of the body (using e.g. ointments.) It is a little-known fact that mud-wrestlers have very healthy feet.</p>
<p>An explanation for Foot Reflexology's effectiveness may be obtained by research involving phantom limbs and brain activity. Some regions of the brain lie so close to each other that they can affect each other. For instance the area dealing with feet and the area dealing with the genitals are close together. Whilst having sex, an amputee can experience feelings in his/her phantom foot. This may explain why foot-reflexology is so relaxing.</p>
<p>Many WW-I reflexologist doctors were posthumously decorated for their courage shown in treating mustard-gas, gunshot, and shrapnel injuries of soldiers who were simultaneously growing camembert cultures between their toes, a common side effect of living in trenches.</p>
</div>
