---
layout: "article"
title: "THE LOBSTER BEINGS"
subtitle: "A Friendly Alien Race"
author: "Chris Tann, The"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "6U4"
permalink: "articles/6U4"
pgg_date: "1995/02/02"
article_date: "1995/02/02"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1995-02-02 01:00"
see_also: ["6R14", "6R13", "6R11", "6R10"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>The following is an eye-witness account of one Hitchhiker's experiences:</p>
<h2>THE LOBSTER BEINGS</h2>
<p>It all started one drunken night at Rottnest. We were staying in a flat at Longreach, which is quite a long way off from the pub and night-life. Longreach consists of two parallel lines of houses, the first quite high and overlooking the second, with a small road in between the two. The houses were quite nice, single story but all joined together, a little like English terrace houses. We were in one on the back row, so we had a balcony that looked over the second row of houses.</p>
<p>It was a quiet night. We had been partying pretty solidly for about four days, and it seemed that there was a unanimous, unspoken decision to have an early night. Or at least, almost unanimous. I was unanimous that it was a night to party!</p>
<p>My beer supplies were short. We had finished the hard booze, and everyone else had crashed out at around midnight, leaving me and my towel alone at the table. I had my towel in classic party-mode form - that is, rolled into a batman-style cape, and slung around my neck.</p>
<p>I took stock of my situation:</p>
<p>Clothing: bare feet, board shorts and a Manic Depressive Society T-shirt, blue towelling cape, and reflect-o sunglasses.</p>
<p>Supplies: 4 cold cans of Emu Export Lager. Unfortunately this was well after the days of steel cans, but at least with the aluminium cans, you have the advantage of a plastic six-pack holder to carry them in.</p>
<p>Companions: None. All wimped out, the pikers.</p>
<p>OK, maybe I should excuse them a little. We had some crayfishing planned for the next day, so they had gone to bed early. I was following a hitch hikers recommendation, and not going to sleep.</p>
<p>So, with my meagre possessions, I decided to head out, and see what action I could find. I wandered along the first line of houses - nothing. All dark and quiet. I got down to the road, and came back along the second line of houses. At last, a party! Lights, noise, action. I attempted a classic "Gate Crashers Entrance", and strolled into the room as if I knew at least half the people.</p>
<p>Well, the plan was a brave one, and as usual the only thing in the path of complete success was that old bastard - reality. It's great pretending to know half the people, but when there are only three to start with, it gets a little tricky to pull off.</p>
<p>I managed to pull it off anyway, using a certain measure of bravado, sat down, and opened a beer. They didn't seem particularly interested in me though. There were 2 guys and a girl, all about 16, playing loud music, and then yelling over the music to be heard. I spoke to them a little bit, but whatever trip it was they were on, it didn't have any room for outsiders.</p>
<p>I finished my beer, and blew that crazy dive. I opened my pre-penultimate beer, and headed off along the road, planning to make the circle back to our house. It was here that things started to get wierd. The story as I later told it was as follows:</p>
<blockquote>"I was walking back up the road, when I heard a strange whistling sound all around me. (I purse my lips and demonstrate this.) My body seemed to waver, like really bad Young-Ones style special effects, and I found myself in, what I figured to be, a spaceship. There were two or three creatures watching me, that could only be described as Lobster Beings - half manlike, but with lobster feelers and eyes, and normal arms with pincers for hands. (At this point I had my hand underneath my nose, wiggling my fingers, in the international "squidy/crabby/lobstery type thing" sign.) They looked at me, and said "We see you have two cans of beer". They were quite right. I had finished my second can of beer, and had the last two, still in the six-pack holder. With great wit and forethought, I replied, "Err, yes?"
<p>"Can we have one", one Lobster Being asked. I considered this for a moment, and said "Sure!", and handed one over. I am not quite sure what he planed to do with it, because I couldn't see any sort of mouth he could drink it with. They then asked me if I would like to go to a party, and of course, I agreed. They then told me that they were going to have to remove my sarcasm gland, as they were impervious to all forms of physical attack, but sarcasm kills them instantly. I found this strange, but readily agreed. They pricked me with something, just behind and below one of my ears (I don't recall which one), and then we set off for the party. The party was wild, but I don't seem to remember any actual details.</p>
<p>"So, they dropped me off home afterwards, but with a 100 million light year (or thereabouts) journey, their navigation was not too exact, and they missed by three houses. I didn't check this, and after hammering on the door for ten minutes, I decided that no one was going to let me in, and so I lay down, pulled my towel over myself, and went to sleep."</p>
</blockquote>
<p>About this time, I realised that I had been telling this story for about half an hour, without a pause, to a group of my friends, and I couldn't actually remember any of the story! I had to ask them to repeat to me what I had just told them.</p>
<p>So, the facts that we have, are that I remember clearly walking up the road behind the houses, with two cans of beer, and then I came to in a room full of my friends, with one can of beer. They had been off to catch crayfish, and on the way back, one had seen a flash of familiar blue in a garden three doors down from our hut. She checked, and sure enough, it was my towel, and even surer enough, I was underneath it, asleep and cuddling one warm can of beer. They woke me up and took me back to the flat, where I lay down and started to recount this wonderful story.</p>
<p>The funny thing was, I wasn't sarcastic for a week afterwards.</p>
</div>
