---
layout: "article"
title: "Where News Articles Go Until They Reappear"
subtitle: "Why Threads Never Die"
author: "Nicole Aucoin"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "6U7"
permalink: "articles/6U7"
pgg_date: "1994/10/19"
article_date: "1994/10/19"
alternative_title_1: "Easter Island"
alternative_title_2: "Stonehenge"
alternative_title_3: "Grand Canyon"
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1994-10-19 00:00"
see_also: ["1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Have you ever wondered why every so often, a thread will reappear weeks after you thought it had died on a newsgroup? Well, wonder no more, enlightenment is here! This exciting expose will reveal all - no more secret destinations for any articles, their private lives revealed, all this and more (only 9.95 plus shipping and handling)!</p>
<p>Those crafty articles do not mundanely sit in bottlenecks at slow sites, nor do they get garbled by faulty transmissions. Oh no, they have either been</p>
<p>dnapped by the stone heads of Easter Island, corralled by the ring of</p>
<p>Stonehenge, or vacationed in the Grand Canyon.</p>
<p>You'd wondered what strange and mystical meaning the huge carvings of Easter Island were for hadn't you? They were the first tap created by ancient civilizations. They draw down passing news articles into their capacious craniums, ponder them for a while, then let them free to some obscure site. There the post continues on as if nothing had happened - it's replied to and revives a dead thread.</p>
<p>Stonehenge is a particularly nasty piece of work for unwary articles - they get jammed up under those arches and take days, sometimes weeks to sort themselves out.</p>
<p>But the favorite destination by far of delinquent news is the Grand Canyon. All those marvelously twisty passages all different, unlike the millions of identical newbie minds that they are destined to breeze through without making an impression. In the lovely Colorado River valley, there is no stress about being articulate, witty, in-depth (since they get this last for free while wizzing about) or grammatically perfect. So if you spot a particularly care-freely spelled article, it has most likely benefited from a spin through the Grand Canyon.</p>
<p>So worry no longer about the fate of those missives that take flight from your keyboards - just imagine the fun they get up to while you stayed tied to the machine. Let them free to soar!</p>
</div>
