---
layout: "article"
title: "Hazel Grove, Near Manchester, England, UK, Earth"
subtitle: "Well, Some Of The Trees Are Friendly I Suppose"
author: "Stuart Bruce"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "7R4"
permalink: "articles/7R4"
pgg_date: "1995/09/23"
article_date: "1995/09/23"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1995-09-23 00:00"
see_also: ["1R1", "7R3", "7R2", "2R83"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Hazel Grove is the kind of place that's so darn boring that, five seconds after you arrive, you find yourself sitting in the wittily titled 1970s revival cafe, "Grub In The Grove," (see "1970s Revival, Just Outside Watford") chewing at a cup of tea, and meandering vaguely trough the "Towns Article Writing Guide For Field Researchers" in your Guide book, desperately looking for something interesting to say about the place.</p>
<pre>
"City area" - long, thin.  Basically the thing was built on a road.
"Aesthetic" -  What's that supposed to mean?
"Population" - decreasing rapidly and I'm really not surprised.
"Comparison with other places" - oh, that's easy.  Pick any place.  Any
          place at all.  And Hazel Grove is worse.  Simple.
"Major industry" - yeah, RIGHT.
"Specialty shops" - well, Hazel Grove has got the biggest charity-shop-to-
          person ratio in the known Universe.  Bizarrely enough, for every
          person still residing in Hazel Grove (and this _includes_ those who
          have fallen into a coma) there would appear to be approximately
          one hundred and twenty seven Oxfams, Scopes (read:  Spastics
          Society as soon as they realised how many people took the mickey),
          Home Farm Trusts...  you name it, if it's a charity shop then
          we've got it.  Even the "Grub In The Grove" has items on its menu
          such as:  worn-out tasteless pullover, wrongly-sized ripped dinner
          jacket, horrendous postcards, spineless books, and so on.
"Kind of houses" - well, they're _kind_ of houses, I suppose.
"Parks" - one.
"Schools &amp; Universities" - one comma nil.
"Zones &amp; districts" - no.  The old people's homes are distributed fairly
          evenly in-between the grotty hospitals and the charity shops
          without much segregation.
"Inhabitants:  wealth, character, religion, languages and dialects,
 famous people." - Hmmm - let me think about this one.  The answers are,
          respectively:  no, no, no, no, and no, no.
"Crime" - yes.
"Traffic" - yes.
"History Of Town" - 160 years ago it used to be called Bullock Smithy.  Up
          until last year there was a mock-old pub in the village which had
          a sign outside which said "Village of Hazel Grove, 1712."  All the
          old people used to have hours of fun pointing out to all the other
          old people that it wasn't called Hazel Grove in 1712.  Last year
          they knocked the pub down and they're building a Tescos
          supermarket on it now.  Well, that's progress for you.
"Inside tips and hints for real fun/adventures; where to hang out, pubs,
 etc." - none.  And I _live_ here.  If you find any, though, let me know.
          _please_.....
"Currency and prices of staying and buying stuff" - due to the high
          contingent of charity shops, this is surprisingly easy.  There are
          also a good number of shop doorways in which to kip.
"How to move about" - use your legs you silly sod.
"Where and what to eat" - no comment.
"Where to stay" - tip number 1:  stay away.
"Checklists:"
          Required equipment: A Portable Charity Shop, Tea-Axe, Old-Person-
                              Gun, Getaway Car.
          Best time to leave: Now now now, mama!
          Things you should try: If you have a fast car you could try
                                 driving up the pavement on the wrong side
                                 of the street playing a game called  "Dent
                                 The Pensioner."  Alternatively ram-raiding
                                 a charity shop is a stimulating (if not
                                 exactly rewarding) experience.
          Things you should avoid: Head-on collisions with oncoming cars.
                                   Believe me, I had one once, and now I
                                   know what a pensioner feels like when
                                   dented.
          Things you should forget: Futile parking tickets, beautiful young
                                    shop assistant's names (they're never
                                    the same from day to day).
          Things you mustn't lose: Your cool.  Your calm.  Your composure.
                                   Your towel.  And your way out.
</pre>
</div>
