---
layout: "article"
title: "Insomnia"
subtitle: "Up All Night, Looking For A Cure"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R26"
permalink: "articles/8R26"
pgg_date: "1996/04/11"
article_date: "1996/04/11"
alternative_title_1: "Sleeplessness"
alternative_title_2: "Time To Think"
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1996-04-11 00:00"
see_also: ["2R24", "2R199", "6S4", "1R21", "2U65"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>It is quite possible that everybody will suffer from insomnia at some point in their lives. The symptom of insomnia is that you, quite simply, will not be able to sleep, even if you are tired, and are really in need of it. In fact, a greater need, and more usually, a greater feel for need, will help to make insomnia worse.</p>
<p>If you find yourself awake at night, lying quietly in bed, wondering why you can't get to sleep, it is quite likely that you will continue to do so for quite a long time, as the major prolonging causes of sleeplessness are the questioning thoughts of the mind.</p>
<p>Two possible ways to cure insomnia, or at least partly reduce its affect, are to make yourself so very tired beforehand, that you cannot possibly keep your eyes open or your mind focussed on anything, though this may defeat the object slightly if you only have a short time to sleep anyway. The other way is to find a distraction that will allow your mind to wander away from the thoughts that plague you.</p>
<p>Methods of distraction are usually audio-only, and can be the sound from a radio, a cassette tape, or even a television. It is not usually a good idea to actually watch the television, though on occasion this may help to induce the closing-eyes effect, which is a nice prelude to sleep.</p>
<p>On the whole, insomnia will usually occur if you have spent a long time, just before going to bed, thinking hard about something, or if you have general problems that you perpetually worry about. The first of these can be solved by breaking with the task that takes your concentration a while before you try to sleep, and doing something simpler. The latter is slightly less easy to solve.</p>
<p>If you do find yourself lying quietly in bed, unable to sleep, it could also be that you are just not yet ready to do so. If this is the case, it is an idea to sit quietly and do something else for a while, for example, read a book, watch the television, or listen to the radio or an audio cassette.</p>
<p>The most important thing to remember about insomnia, is that you are not alone. There are many people in the world who suffer from this, and cries of "why me?" will not help matters, even if it appears that it is just yourself who cannot put head to pillow and call it a night.</p>
<p>You will always find it easier to sleep if you are relaxed, but if you absolutely cannot sleep, it is probably a good idea to use the opportunity to its advantage, by taking the time to think.</p>
<p>Some people will fake sleep just to make you believe that you are the only insomniac.</p>
<pre>
[ed.:  (old joke) What does a dyslexic agnostic insomniac do at night?
                  He stays up all night, wondering if there is a dog.]
</pre>
</div>
