---
layout: "article"
title: "Lost Property"
subtitle: "Finders, Keepers"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R32"
permalink: "articles/8R32"
pgg_date: "1996/05/06"
article_date: "1996/05/06"
alternative_title_1: "Found Property"
alternative_title_2: "Property, How Not To Lose It"
alternative_title_3: "How Not To Lose Property"
alternative_title_4: "Lucky Find"
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1996-05-06 00:00"
see_also: ["8S7", "2U91"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Ed.: Didn't David Copperfield do it this way?"}
---
<div>
<p>If ever there is a situation where panicking is the most appropriate thing to do, it is after you have noticed you have lost something and you realise you are unable to find it.</p>
<p>Property that is lost, will never be recovered, unless one of the following, highly unlikely events have happened: You have not lost something but you have merely displaced it. You have redefined the concept of "lost" by asking everyone standing, for instance, in front of something huge, say, the statue of liberty, to close their eyes and then stating: "you can't see the statue of liberty, therefore we have lost it" <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>. Even less likely is being extremely fortunate and finding the lost property anyway.</p>
<p>Losing things can be very stressful, especially if the item or items in question is or are very valuable. Precious items are very difficult to recover because when found, they will not usually be returned to their rightful owner, and are regarded as a "lucky find" by their beneficiary. If you have lost something valuable, the only way to recover it is to be far luckier than anybody else in the relevant vicinity.</p>
<p>The only real safeguard against actually losing things is to keep your property organised, to know where everything is, and to never put items in unusual places. This can contradict with the advice that anybody could give on the topic of "protection from theft," and it is true that a fine balance must be weighed. However, if you lose something yourself, it's rarely possible to claim it from your insurance company, unless they are composed of that special breed of people for whom the word "stupid" was not adequately defined to describe.</p>
</div>
