---
layout: "article"
title: "Busker&apos;s Arc"
subtitle: "Semi-Circular Gap Between A Performer And A (Perhaps) Unwilling Audience"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R4"
permalink: "articles/8R4"
pgg_date: "1995/11/22"
article_date: "1995/11/22"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1995-11-22 01:00"
see_also: ["2R48", "2R89"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Many urban areas are home to a certain types of people who spend a lot of their time - for reasons of unemployment, boredom, or just plain enjoyment - performing their music in public places.</p>
<p>It has been observed on countless occasions that any pedestrians passing such a musician will move past in a distanced semi-circular shape that can be measured in a directly increasing proportion to the sound level of the aforementioned artist. It can also be observed that the physical behaviour of these musicians will also influence the degree to which pedestrians will depart from their chosen route.</p>
<p>Perhaps the most curious thing about some of these artists, is the type of music they play - where this is generally regarded to be oddly familiar in an unplaceable way. It can occasionally be observed to benefit the lives of others, bringing as it does, the joy of hearing one's favourite tune as one strolls by, taking in the air - though this is not always the case. However, the degree to which someone may benefit by the sound of the music, does not usually influence the degree to which they avoid it.</p>
<p>It has been speculated by some, that there may be a connection with the ever-growing mystery of crop circles. Could it be that these are merely the stage for a number of major busker fairs? The sceptics would prefer to reach to the furthest corners of the universe for explanations that may well lay far closer to home.</p>
<p>Or perhaps, on the flip-side of the coin, could the whole business of buskers, itself, be a mysterious and deadly invasion plan from beyond the stars?</p>
<p>Time will tell...</p>
</div>
