---
layout: "article"
title: "Nothing"
subtitle: "Doing Something"
author: "Ben Hausmann"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R53"
permalink: "articles/8R53"
pgg_date: "1996/09/30"
article_date: "1996/09/30"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1996-09-30 00:00"
see_also: ["8S2"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"The You Ess Uv Ay."}
---
<div>
<p>Wherever I go, people are always asking me what I have done. It is hard to answer, because two out of three times, what I have done is: nothing. Especially in this country <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> it seems that doing "nothing" is becoming a growing habit.</p>
<p>People often tell me to "go do something" but the truth is that I <em>am</em> doing something: nothing. And nothing is harder to do than one might think. If I do too much nothing, I get bored; if I do too little of it, I will find myself doing something.</p>
<p>It is strange what society considers to be "nothing", for instance, during the night sleeping is considered to be doing something. However, during the day they say sleeping is doing nothing. In fact, I believe that after dark it is almost impossible to do nothing. Nothing is a strictly diurnal activity. For example, watching TV midday Saturday (unless there's sport on, which is accepted) is doing nothing, while watching a prime time sitcom or a late night talk show is definitely doing something.</p>
<p>One of the greatest things about doing nothing is that you don't need any special equipment. In fact, the less you have the easier it is. If you have twenty bucks burning a hole in your pocket it is harder to do nothing than if you are broke.</p>
<p>However, modern society will not allow you to simply do nothing. One has to be a renaissance man: being equally good at doing nothing and at doing work.</p>
</div>
