---
layout: "article"
title: "Bemidji, Minnesota, USA, Earth"
subtitle: "A Very Cold Place To Be"
author: "Matt A. Moyle"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R62"
permalink: "articles/8R62"
pgg_date: "1996/03/20"
article_date: "1996/03/20"
alternative_title_1: ""
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1996-03-20 01:00"
see_also: ["1R1", "8S2", "2R109", "2R59", "1R4", "2S16", "8R27", "2R71", "8R61"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Those who would question the economic value of students because they are perpetually broke are invited to consider how those students become broke in the first place."}
---
<div>
<p>Bemidji, a very cold place, is located in the northwestern part of Minnesota, which is located in the North Central portion of the United States, which are located in the Northern and Western Hemispheres (depending, of course, on your frame of reference) of the Earth, which is located, well, read the article on the Earth if you're still lost. It is, to be more precise, roughly halfway between Minneapolis, MN, USA, and Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, the only significant cultural centers in this desolate part of the Earth. Bimidji is located within 30 miles of the Chippewa National Forest, numerous state forests, and three "Indian Reservations". It is also noteworthy for being the "First City on the Mississippi River," and thus perhaps the only place where the water from said river is in any way safe to drink. The fact that such major population centers as Minneapolis, St. Louis, and New Orleans draw their drinking water from the river after it has been polluted beyond belief (from among other things the Bemidji wastewater treatment facility) is much too disturbing a topic to be covered here.</p>
<p>The city's name comes from the lake it is situated next to. Not a terribly creative choice, but a reasonable one nonetheless. The name of the lake comes from a Native American word meaning "Lake with water running through it" or something (due to the Mississippi flowing in and out of the lake), although many prominent Native Americans of the area now insist that it means no such thing. They insist that the settlers of the area were really dumb and couldn't understand what they were saying, which is probably true.</p>
<p>The city reports a population of approximately 11,000. However, the city is unique in that it is transient groups of people that provide the city with its economic livelihood: Bemidji State University brings in 5,000 students <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>, and when school is out, hordes of tourists come and take their place, drawn to the pristine natural beauty of the area, and the chance to drink clean water from the Mississippi. Due to these two factors, there seem to be a higher number of pizza joints around per capita than one might expect. This chronicler has (not very) carefully counted 8 of them, ranging from the reasonable to the horrid. There are the typical chain outfits, which will these days not only sell you pizza but also buffalo wings, so named because they are really wings of chickens (animals that bear no resemblance to buffalo at all) smothered in a sauce. This sauce also bears no resemblance to buffalo, except that if you go to the wrong pizza joint, it can kill you. Also, there are more local places, the best of these being Dave's, the cheapest Giovanni's and the worst Mario's. Avoid Mario's at all costs.</p>
<p>Other good places for a hitchhiker to eat without immediately collapsing from cholesterol poisoning include... well, there aren't a lot really. Either it's fast food or it's outside budget constraints. The Chinese place isn't too bad. Desperate travelers may consider sneaking into the dining hall at the University. However, you are hereby warned, the buffalo wings are better for your health and general sanity.</p>
<p>Accommodations are plentiful in the winter months, and there are amenities for even the budget traveler. However, the die-hard hitchhiker would be wise to seek accommodation via other venues. The easiest way is to go to a college party (these happen every night), get badly drunk, and start flirting with every possible member of the opposite sex until someone takes you home with them. If your body structure is such that you are not likely to be attractive even to a badly drunk member of the opposite sex, then simply stay drunk until the end of the party (hypothetically speaking anyway) and then go and sleep it off at a 24-hour restaurant. They will not mind, as long as you order a muffin and/or a cup of coffee every 2 to 3 hours. In the summer months, it can be quite pleasant to sleep in a park, or even on someone's lawn. However, if you try this in the winter, you may not wake up again.</p>
<p>It gets very very cold. If you think London is cold when it is locked in its rainy-chilly-windy periods, well, think colder. We're talking cold enough to make Swedes and Finns go for the extra jacket. Around mid-January, there is always a week or two when the temperatures don't rise above zero (Fahrenheit) at all. As this chronicler writes this piece on a late January night the mercury is hovering at a not-so-balmy minus 36. This can only be described as effing cold. Being outside for more than 15 minutes would do very nasty things to your body parts. 'Nuff said.</p>
<p>Despite all this nasty cold weather, Bemidji really is a nice place to visit in the winter because of the natural beauty. It is situated near many large tracts of evergreen trees which are unmistakably beautiful under the weight of freshly fallen snow. In fact, nearly everything seems to become more pretty under the weight of freshly fallen snow, except for the roads, which just get slippery, and cause accidents. Spring is messy, all the freshly fallen snow turning to old, crusty, messy snow, that persists just enough to make consistent puddles from March to May. Fall is dreary, rainy and grey, although the fall colors are quite nice at times. I'm told that some people like fall, but I am not one of them. Summer is nice, warm, and mostly pleasant.</p>
<p>There is a tremendous lack of reasonable coffee houses. There is but one, and while it is a fine example of its genre, there simply should be more. Investors are urged to give me lots of money so that I can go to coffee-house-running school and start a couple of them.</p>
<p>So anyway, come see Bemidji. It's a nice place, and if you get sick of it, you can always go to Winnipeg, where they speak a little French (or, I should say, they speak a lot of French in a little area), or Minneapolis, where they have a veritable plethora of coffee houses.</p>
</div>
