---
layout: "article"
title: "Wigs"
subtitle: "You Hair What You Hair"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R65"
permalink: "articles/8R65"
pgg_date: "1996/12/10"
article_date: "1996/12/10"
alternative_title_1: "Hair Pieces"
alternative_title_2: "Replacement Hair"
alternative_title_3: "Substitute Hair"
alternative_title_4: "Hair Substitute"
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Tue, 1996-12-10 01:00"
see_also: ["10R1"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Many wigs are famous for almost, but not quite, matching hair colour.","[2]":"Research states that more people laugh at wigs than at bald people.","[3]":"Indeed, British comedian, Alexei Sayle, decided that when he began to go bald, he would shave all his hair off.","[4]":"This is a matter of speculation, and may or may not be true.","[5]":"Although I have lived in a house with someone who wears a wig and, from personal experience, it is quite unpleasant to find the said item floating in the sink."}
---
<div>
<p>There are several uses for a modern wig, or hair piece, which are as follows:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">To cover a small bald patch</li>
<li value="2">To cover a large bald patch</li>
<li value="3">To cover a completely bald head</li>
<li value="4">To make you look different</li>
</ol>
<p>To take the last of these, this is mainly for people who wish to have a certain type of hair, but who unfortunately have a certain <em>other</em> type of hair. This can apply for instance to people who have short hair, but want long hair for a short period without any of the inherent problems, or to people who have one colour of hair, say brown, and wish to have another, say green, for an equally short time.</p>
<p>Points 1, 2 and 3 can all work in a similar way to 4, but also have their own implications and inspiration.</p>
<p>Primarily, someone who wears a wig doesn't want anyone to know that they don't have any hair underneath it. This is by no means unreasonable. What is unreasonable is that they expect people to believe that they have a complete head of hair when it's obvious they don't, because the last remains of natural hair have a totally different colour to the wig <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>.</p>
<p>Chances are that if you wear a wig, you are sensitive about hair loss. This is quite a reasonable feeling to have, but the acquisition of a wig is probably not the best answer; it is sometimes less painful just to live with it, and stop trying to hide it from people <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>. Try not to feel bad about it <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a>.</p>
<p>There are many jokes told about people with wigs, more specifically, about the amusing fact that their appearance is not totally dissimilar to that of a dead rat or another small furry animal. This is not an excuse to wear a rat on your head, unless you are prepared to justify this to your colleagues.</p>
<p>It is possible for a wig to be made of real hair, though this isn't, I believe, very common these days. At the moment, most wigs are made from synthetic substances that have a variable likeness, in both texture and appearance, to real hair. Basically, you pay for the better hair. If you don't have a lot of money, you're much better off not wearing a wig.</p>
<p>A famous arena for wig wearing would be any of the many studios where chat shows are filmed, it being well known that most of the more famous chat show hosts, certainly in the UK, wear wigs <a href="#footnotes.4" class="footnote-link">[4]</a>. If you are invited onto one of these shows, on no account bring a portable fan and use it at any time during your interview.</p>
<p>The author would like to note here that he isn't bald, or balding, though at some distant point in the future, this might happen. It goes on record here that he might end up with a rat on his head anyway <a href="#footnotes.5" class="footnote-link">[5]</a>.</p>
</div>
