---
layout: "article"
title: "Sjoevik, Smaaland, Sweden, Earth"
subtitle: "Sjoevik, The Thorn In Everybody&apos;s Life"
author: "Dennis Roren"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "8R92"
permalink: "articles/8R92"
pgg_date: "1998/03/25"
article_date: "1998/03/25"
alternative_title_1: "Sjovik"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1998-03-25 01:00"
see_also: ["1R1", "2R81", "2S10", "2S64", "8S19", "8S18"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>Sjoevik, a thorn in the side of everybody's life: living there is like having a `pain in the ass' that won't go away. People living here are not happy to be living here, but continue to do so in the incorrect assumption that it is as good as any place to live in.</p>
<p>Sjoevik lies in an agricultural area, outside the town of Naessjoe. Actually it lies even closer to the little town Bodafors and the little town Saevsjoe. Life in the little place called Sjoevik (or Norra Sandsjoe, as it is also called), is pretty slow. Not that nothing ever happens -- sure, things happen all the time, but nobody really cares. That is because sooner or later everything will be back to normal again, and everybody living there can get on with their usual business.</p>
<p>If you somehow manage to fly your way here, it's pretty harmless to land here, as long as you keep a low profile. To blend in with the people living here, take your time to do whatever you want to do, and nobody will ever notice you've ever been here. Don't leave your towel or any other part of your luggage lying around, or it might just be plowed down by one of the farmers living around the place. I lived here for a couple of years and haven't noticed any change in lifestyle during that time. As I left, it was as if I had never been there...</p>
<p>Not a place for more than passing through, perhaps a leg-stretcher before moving on to some more interesting places. It might be a good place to live for a while if you don't want to leave a trace of your visit when you leave.</p>
</div>
