---
layout: "article"
title: "Santa Claus, The Early Years"
subtitle: "How It All Began"
author: "Aaron Rice"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "8U21"
permalink: "articles/8U21"
pgg_date: "1997/02/17"
article_date: "1997/02/17"
alternative_title_1: "Early Years Of Santa Claus"
alternative_title_2: "Claus, Santa, The Early Years"
alternative_title_3: "Stephen Claus-Santana, The Early Years"
alternative_title_4: "Free Gifts, The Beginning Of"
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Mon, 1997-02-17 01:00"
see_also: ["8U19"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Though not as impossible as you might think. A simple documentary on television, showing how it is theoretically possible to simulate the physical appearance of any individual, coupled with the confessions of his so-called \"closest friends and family\" to the effect that they were \"living a lie\" could cause the general public to change their minds."}
---
<div>
<p>Inexperience tends to be the initial problem when anybody partakes in a new job. This is especially true when the job, itself, is completely new; the problem being that there hasn't even been anyone to test the metaphorical water, before another is asked to take a huge dive into it.</p>
<p>Mr Stephen Claus-Santana was no exception. On the advice of his late wife, Margaret, he applied to the newly set up International Generosity Committee for the new, and therefore currently vacant, position of present distributer. This title was later amended to Public Distributer of Gifts, though it was later slang-titled "Mr Freebies".</p>
<p>It was because of his new position and status, and the progressive increase in his personal fortune, that he moved from his quiet two-bedroomed flat in Hamburg, and bought himself a little castle somewhere outside Paris. This was the first step in a property chain that would take him to his final location, and eventual resting place, in Lapland.</p>
<p>His arrogance increased, of course. Hiring more and more people to do more and more of his work, he began to believe he had a divine right to do what-the-hell he liked. It was at this point that he formally changed his name to Santana (later, Santa) Claus.</p>
<p>Investment soared, and he managed to extend his empire across three-quarters of the world. The popularity of the service he offered was soon recognised as absolutely essential in the modern world, and a fantastic way of controlling unruly children, who would otherwise have run riot.</p>
<p>Possibly, the last act he performed in consultation with his advisers, was to formally move to force his existence into the realms of rumour and fiction. Not an easy task with such a grand well-known public figure <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>. Shortly after this, his helpers were required to sign a portion of the Official Secrets Act, and all physical signs of Santa and Co., were obliterated from public view.</p>
<p>Christmas continued, of course, but the people forgot...</p>
</div>
