---
layout: "article"
title: "Arguments, Infinitely Prolonging"
subtitle: "Arguments That Can Go On Forever"
author: "John Haveman"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "9R18"
permalink: "articles/9R18"
pgg_date: "1997/04/24"
article_date: "1997/04/24"
alternative_title_1: "Infinitely Prolonged Participation In Arguments"
alternative_title_2: "Prolonging Participation In Arguments Infinitely"
alternative_title_3: "Participation In Arguments, Prolonging Infinitely"
alternative_title_4: "Arguments, The Art of Infinitely Prolonging"
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Thu, 1997-04-24 00:00"
see_also: ["8R37", "2R164", "8R59", "12S1", "8R56", "2R110", "6R39", "8R27", "2S16", "2S55"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"In fact, if you follow these suggestions, you most likely will never win.","[2]":"Unless the topic is exceedingly abstract. I was witness to one fine debate where the opponents argued the existence of thought. The scary thing is that the sides were not for/against.","[3]":"Well, possibly Jim Carrey.","[4]":"Following this advice even allows one to argue something that eventually will be definite. Take, for instance, the question of who will win the Earth's Soccer [6] World Cup in the year 2005. If the year is 1996, one could easily spend a great portion of the next several years proclaiming some perfectly absurd point of view. Two things, however, must still be carefully avoided: you must make sure to part company with your arguing companions well before 2005, lest the actual result comes out, unequivocally proving you to be a fool; and you must avoid the type of smart-ass that will point out that there will in fact be no World Cup in 2005, since they only happen every 4 years.","[5]":"This will vary with the company that you are in. If you, for example, are Albert Einstein and happen to see Werner Heisenberg and Erwin Schroedinger sitting around looking bored, have at it; you'll be doing us all a favor. I realize that there is some sort of consensus that has been reached on this issue, but I doubt I'm the only one who is just a little bit uncomfortable with the resolution.","[6]":"Or \"Football\", as most non-American-types call the sport."}
---
<div>
<p>First off, the inaccuracy in the title should be noted. Very few Hitchhikers, or people in general for that matter, are immortal, so the "infinitely prolonging" bit is at best a misleading hyperbole, and at worst flat-out wrong. This is not suggesting taking up arguing full-time, since there is so much else out there to do, it is merely offering instructions on something to do to pass the vast amount of dead time available to the common hitchhiker.</p>
<p>Winning arguments is a rather popular subject, because at times it can be very practical. An oft neglected subject, however, is that of <em>prolonging</em> arguments. In this method of arguing, the objective is not to win <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a> but to pass time. Anyone can win an argument with a little persistence, but only the true artist can keep a single, pointless discussion vibrant for a lifetime, providing endless hours of entertainment, not only to the participants, but also to countless others within earshot.</p>
<p>The most delicate portion of this art is the selecting of a topic. Therefore, the following suggestions are given. You may, of course, feel free to disagree.</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">Do Not Argue About Anything of Consequence. This includes, of course, politics. Not because politicians ever get anything of consequence done, but because these sorts of discussions tend to move beyond the "friendly chat" stage, to the "large-scale wars with intercontinental ballistic missiles" stage.</li>
<li value="2">Do Not Argue About Anything Dangerous. Defending Erwin Schroedinger against a supporter of Werner Heisenberg is much safer than, for example, defending God versus a loyal fan of Zeus, mainly because both Schroedinger and Heisenberg, regardless of their relative importance to science, lack the ability to smite you.</li>
<li value="3">Do Not Argue About Anything Definite <a href="#footnotes.2" class="footnote-link">[2]</a>. Along the same line as the above rule, nothing could be more annoying <a href="#footnotes.3" class="footnote-link">[3]</a> than spending months arguing passionately that the Eiffel Tower doesn't exist, only to arrive in Paris and see that it in fact does. A much better angle to take is that the Eiffel Tower is located somewhere in Texas. Then, you can wander throughout most of Texas and still claim to be correct. This is actually very advisable, since there is little else to talk about while in Texas.</li>
<li value="4">Do Not Argue About Anything Immediate <a href="#footnotes.4" class="footnote-link">[4]</a>. "Where are we going to eat dinner?" is a perfectly practical and immediate question, and therefore a dreadful one to have a good argument over. Sure, you can have a great time passionately comparing and contrasting the finer points of various cuisines, but, in the end, you're still just hungry. If you must, however, argue this topic, it is suggested that before posing the initial question, you order out for pizza. If you have a good argument going, no one will even realize when the food arrives that the whole discussion has been made moot.</li>
<li value="5">Do Not Go Along With Conventional Wisdom. Always select the most outrageous opinions to defend. This not only guarantees you plenty of opponents, but adds to the over all absurdity of it all and allows you to demonstrate your superior skill. Any fool can come up with reasons to believe that chickens exist, but only a genius can indefinitely argue that chickens are the fabrication of an elite group of Spaniards bent on world conquest.</li>
<li value="6">Do Not Choose A Too Complicated Topic. Few people can keep up with discussing the relative validity of the particle nature of light versus its wave nature, but most people can handle "less filling" versus "tastes great" <a href="#footnotes.5" class="footnote-link">[5]</a>.</li>
</ol>
<p>Arguing, if done correctly, can provide cheap enjoyment for hours requiring nothing save for a head full of ideas, which can be purchased on the black market so that even most hitchhikers can have their very own.</p>
</div>
