---
layout: "article"
title: "Fish, Basic Uses Of"
subtitle: "Eat Or Get Eaten"
author: "Vladimir L. Shirokogorov"
factuality: "Real"
pgg_id: "9R32"
permalink: "articles/9R32"
pgg_date: "1997/08/13"
article_date: "1997/08/13"
alternative_title_1: "Uses Of Fish, Basic"
alternative_title_2: ""
alternative_title_3: ""
alternative_title_4: ""
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Wed, 1997-08-13 00:00"
see_also: ["2U37", "8S16", "6R10"]
footnotes: {"[1]":"Sometimes they eat mostly fish or, in extreme cases, only fish."}
---
<div>
<p>Fish are a carbon based life form which inhabit the fresh and salty waters of the planet Earth. The most distinguished feature of a fish is that it can breathe right where it lives, in water, which is not very common to other species inhabiting this planet. To sustain this sort of living, fish have developed a unique apparatus which takes dissolved oxygen from surrounding water.</p>
<p>Fish, as has been stated, live in salty and fresh water, practically everywhere on Earth, and hence they differ much in size, form and habits. A common thing for all, normal, fish is that they have neither legs nor ears; fish covered with fur have been reported a couple of times, but as the authors of these reports moved to psychiatric wards soon after, these reports have been ignored.</p>
<p>All fish may be divided into the following groups:</p>
<ol>
<li value="1">useful fish, which can be used by a hitchhiker or a stragg in some way; and</li>
<li value="2">useless fish, which can not be used anyway.</li>
</ol>
<h2>Useful fish</h2>
<p>Fish is most commonly used as food. This sort of fish can be obtained in two ways: either a hitchhiker may catch the fish in water, or he may get it from nearest fishmonger or supermarket. In the latter case, the fish may look not exactly like fish, but rather a lump of something, sometimes frozen, smoked or processed in some other way, or even in a tin can. As most people on Earth eat fish <a href="#footnotes.1" class="footnote-link">[1]</a>, and have therefore developed different methods for its preparation, there are numerous known ways to cook or process it. Fish may be eaten raw and fresh, it may be salted, salted and dried, dried, smoked, boiled, fried, left in a specially dug hole until it gets rotten a little, made into soup, and so on.</p>
<p>One can also use fish for aesthetic purposes. Some people care to make glass boxes of different forms and sizes, fill them with water, install some devices -- compressors, thermometers, lights, etcetera -- and let some nice looking, or/and rare, or/and friendly, or/and expensive fish live there. Other people stuff fish and put them in their working studio, a bar or some other place where they may be seen by others, and admired.</p>
<p>Some fish are powerful weapons used to destroy enemies, or yourself. Sharks and piranhas are carnivores and they are eager to eat everything soft and pink, including people. Some fish, like the legendary fugu, are safe to eat if properly cooked, but may be extremely poisonous. Some fish carry poisonous spikes, and if a person steps on such fish he gets hurt, and sometimes may even die.</p>
<p>In addition, some useful substances can be extracted from fish. Impotence curing medicine produced of sharks and cod liver oil are probably the best known.</p>
<p>Of course, there are some exotic uses of fish: wrestling in small rotten fish, sending fish by post to a member of mafia in order to let him know that he is out of favour and soon will be killed, having sex with fish and so on, but all these can not be regarded as basic uses of fish.</p>
<h2>Useless fish</h2>
<p>Useless fish are none of the described above. Most of them are useless, because it is impossible to catch and make any use of them. Some of them are useless because they are very small. Dead fish washed ashore are mostly useless. Fish eaten by another fish instantly becomes useless. Generally, any previously used fish becomes useless.</p>
<h2>Not fish</h2>
<p>Remember that dolphins and whales are not fish. Any fish-like man-made thing is also not fish. In case someone calls you a fish he is, of course, wrong.</p>
</div>
