---
layout: "article"
title: "Big Red Panel, The"
subtitle: "The Highlight Of The Zzzzwuchh Sector"
author: "Kristian Kirsfeldt"
factuality: "UnReal"
pgg_id: "9U5"
permalink: "articles/9U5"
pgg_date: "1997/05/17"
article_date: "1997/05/17"
alternative_title_1: "Red Panel, The Big"
alternative_title_2: "Panel, The Big Red"
alternative_title_3: "Sector, Big Red Panel"
alternative_title_4: "Zzzzwuchh Sector, The"
submission_string: "Submitted by admin on Sat, 1997-05-17 00:00"
see_also: ["1R1"]
footnotes: {}
---
<div>
<p>If you happen to travel some light years from the place where once existed the planet Earth, you should encounter a very loosely inhabited sector. The name of the sector is long forgotten, mainly because of its loose inhabitants, and the fact that the loose inhabitants haven't done very much space travelling during the last few centuries and getting to know their sector's name from other space-travellers.</p>
<p>If you then, by a curious mistake, happen to enter this sector, you will soon find out why it is, amongst experienced hitch-hikers, named as "The Big Red Panel" Sector or the, unpronounceable, "Zzzzwuchh" Sector.</p>
<p>As expected, not long after you have entered the area, you will encounter a Big Red Panel. Shining like a Christmas tree, big as a class-B3 red supernova. Yes, that's it; now you know what's responsible for the name!</p>
<p>This panel bares the words "Enough of blue". Below the text is drawn the huge red "Zzzzwuchh," the unpronounceable product. The panel is so enormous, that the native inhabitants of nearby planets think it's a big star gone nova and write their astronomical charts based upon it.</p>
<p>Having seen this thing and thought to yourself, "Gee, what a big red thing that Zzzzwuchh is," you will probably need to have a drink. So, you land on a nearby planet, go to a flat ill-decorated bar that bears the words "Zzzzwuchh, the original unpronounceable product" on it's roof, and get yourself a glass of beer.</p>
<p>Then, you'll probably kick off your "shitsmacker"-type marine sandals and have a nice time. Probably, in fact almost very likely, some native will come and start to tell you the history of this Big Red Panel, yelling at the same time to the bartender to bring some more beer.</p>
<p>So, as you listen, you will soon realise that the history of the Big Red Panel is very colourful. Some tell stories of many flying sea-gulls crashing into a Big Red Firestorm, and most can even recount that a spice freighter the size of a small rocky planet orbiting the star O'o'ou, was seen to crash into it. Neither the spice freighter, nor it's pilot, have been seen since then. The next thing you will probably hear is the old song that was made to comfort the Old Red God.</p>
<p>It is then customary to buy some little bric-a-brac, shaped like a Small Red Panel, with blurry letters "Enough of blue" printed on it, and leave the bar.</p>
<p>Standing in front of the bar, taking a few deep breaths and looking up, you will see the looming Red Nova among the stars. As you gaze up you wonder, why does this place remind you of all the other places you've ever been to? Only sights, people and pubs change. Most often the pubs, but in the people there is still an eerie consistency.</p>
</div>
